2018 IEEE European Symposium on Security and Privacy
So K: Security and Privacy in Machine Learning
∗ ∗ † †
Nicolas Papernot , Patrick Mc Daniel , Arunesh Sinha , and Michael P. Wellman
∗
Pennsylvania State University
†
University of Michigan
{ngp 5056,mcdaniel}@cse.psu.edu, {arunesh,wellman}@umich.edu
Abstract—Advances in machine learning (ML) in recent years In this paper, we develop a unified perspective on this
have enabled a dizzying array of applications such as data field, based on a threat model that considers characteristics
analytics, autonomous systems, and security diagnostics. ML of the attack surface, adversarial goals, and possible de-
isnowpervasive—newsystemsandmodelsarebeingdeployed fense and attack capabilities particular to systems built on
ineverydomainimaginable,leadingtowidespreaddeployment machine learning. This security model serves as a roadmap
of software based inference and decision making. There is for surveying knowledge about attacks and defenses of ML
growing recognition that ML exposes new vulnerabilities in systems.Wedistillmajorthemesandhighlightresultsinthe
softwaresystems,yetthetechnicalcommunity’sunderstanding formoftake-awaymessagesaboutthisnewareaofresearch.
of the nature and extent of these vulnerabilities remains In exploring security and privacy in this domain, it is
limited. We systematize findings on ML security and privacy, instructive to view systems built on ML through the prism
focusing on attacks identified on these systems and defenses of the classical confidentiality, integrity, and availability
craftedtodate.Wearticulateacomprehensivethreatmodelfor (CIA)model[2].Inthiswork,confidentialityisdefinedwith
ML,andcategorizeattacksanddefenseswithinanadversarial respect to the model or its data. Attacks on confidentiality
framework.Keyinsightsresultingfromworksbothinthe ML attempt to expose the model structure or parameters (which
andsecuritycommunitiesareidentifiedandtheeffectivenessof may be highly valuable intellectual property) or the data
approachesarerelatedtostructuralelementsof MLalgorithms used to train and test it (e.g., patient data). The latter class
and the data used to train them. In particular, it is apparent of attacks have a potential to impact the privacy of the
thatconstructingatheoreticalunderstandingofthesensitivity data source, especially when model users are not trusted,
of modern ML algorithms to the data they analyze, a` la PAC which in cases such as patient clinical data used to train
medical diagnostic models may be highly sensitive. We
theory, will foster a science of security and privacy in ML.
defineattacksontheintegrityasthosethatinduceparticular
1. Introduction
outputs or behaviors of the adversary’s choosing. They are
Advances in the science of machine learning (ML) cou- oftenconductedthroughmanipulationsofthedataonwhich
pled with growth in computational capacities transformed the ML system trains or predicts. Where those adversarial
the technology landscape, as embodied by the automation behaviorsattempttopreventlegitimateusersfromaccessing
of Machine Learningasaserviceoncommercialcloudplat- meaningful model outputs or the features of the system
forms. For example, ML-driven data analytics fundamen- itself, such attacks fall within the realm of availability.
tally altered the practice of health care and finance. Within A second perspective in evaluating security and privacy
the security domain, detection and monitoring systems now focusesonattacksanddefenseswithrespecttothemachine
consume vast amounts of data and extract actionable infor- learning pipeline. Here, we consider the lifecycle of a ML-
mationthatinthepastwouldhavebeenimpossible.Inspite based system from training to inference, and identify the
of these spectacular advances, the technical community’s adversarial goals and means at each phase. We observe that
understanding of the vulnerabilities inherent to the design attacks on training generally attempt to influence the model
of systems built on ML and the means to defend against byalteringorinjectingtrainingsamples—inessenceguiding
them are still in its infancy. There is a broad and pressing the learning process towards a vulnerable model. Attacks at
callto advanceascienceof securityandprivacyin ML[1]. inference time (runtime) are more diverse. Adversaries use
Suchcallshavenotgoneunheeded.Manyinvestigations exploratory attacks to induce targeted outputs, and oracle
have sought to expand our understanding of the threats, attacks to extract the model itself.
attacks and defenses of systems built on ML. This work, The science of defenses for machine learning is some-
however,isfragmentedacrossseveralresearchcommunities what less well developed. We consider several defen-
including ML,security,statistics,andtheoryofcomputation. sive goals. The first is robustness to distribution drifts—
As yet there is no unified lexicon or science spanning these maintainingperformanceasfaraspossiblewhenthetraining
disciplines. The fragmentation presents both a motivation and runtime input distributions differ. The second is to pro-
andchallengeforourefforttosystematizeknowledgeabout vide formal guarantees of privacy preservation—bounding
the myriad of security and privacy issues that involve ML. the amount of information exposed by a learned model.
© 2018, Nicolas Papernot. Under license to IEEE. 399
DOI 10.1109/Euro SP.2018.00035

2.1. Overview of Machine Learning Tasks
(cid:2)(cid:3)(cid:4)(cid:5)(cid:3)(cid:6)(cid:4)(cid:7)(cid:8)(cid:9)(cid:10)(cid:8)(cid:11)(cid:12)(cid:13)(cid:14)(cid:6)(cid:15)(cid:4)(cid:8)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:12)(cid:5)(cid:15)(cid:6)(cid:15)(cid:17)
#$ (cid:2)(cid:3)(cid:4)(cid:5)(cid:4)(cid:6)(cid:7)(cid:8)(cid:3)(cid:9)(cid:3)(cid:6)(cid:7)(cid:10)(cid:9)(cid:3)(cid:11)(cid:12)(cid:4) Machine learning automates the analysis of (typically)
large data sets, producing models or decision procedures
reflecting general relationships found in that data [5]. ML
(cid:18)(cid:4)(cid:13)(cid:19)(cid:5)(cid:6)(cid:20)(cid:21)(cid:8)(cid:22)(cid:4)(cid:10)(cid:6)(cid:15)(cid:6)(cid:20)(cid:6)(cid:9)(cid:15)(cid:23)(cid:8)(cid:12)(cid:15)(cid:24)(cid:8)(cid:25)(cid:9)(cid:12)(cid:26)(cid:23)
#%
(cid:13)(cid:9)(cid:9)(cid:3)(cid:14)(cid:5)(cid:7)(cid:10)(cid:15)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:3)(cid:14)(cid:12)(cid:6)(cid:7)(cid:13)(cid:18)(cid:19)(cid:12)(cid:16)(cid:4)(cid:3)(cid:16)(cid:20)(cid:3)(cid:21)(cid:7)(cid:22)(cid:3)(cid:23)(cid:3)(cid:24)(cid:20)(cid:21)(cid:20)(cid:9)(cid:20)(cid:12)(cid:4)(cid:7)(cid:3)(cid:25)(cid:18)(cid:7)(cid:26)(cid:27)(cid:3)(cid:21)(cid:4) techniques are commonly divided into three classes, char-
acterized by the nature of the data available for analysis.
Supervised learning: Methods that are given training exam-
#& (cid:27)(cid:5)(cid:12)(cid:6)(cid:15)(cid:6)(cid:15)(cid:17)(cid:28)(cid:20)(cid:6)(cid:29)(cid:4)(cid:8)(cid:30)(cid:20)(cid:20)(cid:12)(cid:13)(cid:31)(cid:23) (cid:27)(cid:4)(cid:23)(cid:20)(cid:28)(cid:20)(cid:6)(cid:29)(cid:4)(cid:8) (cid:6)(cid:15)(cid:10)(cid:4)(cid:5)(cid:4)(cid:15)(cid:13)(cid:4)!(cid:8)(cid:30)(cid:20)(cid:20)(cid:12)(cid:13)(cid:31)(cid:23) #’
(cid:3)(cid:11)(cid:3)(cid:20)(cid:25)(cid:4)(cid:9)(cid:7)(cid:28)(cid:25)(cid:9)(cid:12)(cid:11)(cid:16)(cid:20)(cid:9)(cid:29)(cid:7)(cid:3)(cid:25)(cid:18)(cid:7)(cid:30)(cid:16)(cid:20)(cid:19)(cid:3)(cid:14)(cid:29) (cid:3)(cid:11)(cid:3)(cid:20)(cid:25)(cid:4)(cid:9)(cid:7)(cid:28)(cid:25)(cid:9)(cid:12)(cid:11)(cid:16)(cid:20)(cid:9)(cid:29)(cid:7)(cid:3)(cid:25)(cid:18)(cid:7)(cid:30)(cid:16)(cid:20)(cid:19)(cid:3)(cid:14)(cid:29) plesintheformofinputslabeledwithcorrespondingoutputs
are supervised learning techniques. Generally, the objective
is to induce a model mapping inputs (including unseen
(cid:22)(cid:4)(cid:10)(cid:4)(cid:15)(cid:24)(cid:6)(cid:15)(cid:17)(cid:8)(cid:11)(cid:16)
#( (cid:2)(cid:27)(cid:31)(cid:3)(cid:16)(cid:18)(cid:4)(cid:7) (cid:27)(cid:24)(cid:15)(cid:4)(cid:9)(cid:6)(cid:7)(cid:30)(cid:16)(cid:20)(cid:19)(cid:3)(cid:9)(cid:12)(cid:6)(cid:7)(cid:3)(cid:25)(cid:18)(cid:7)(cid:13)(cid:14)(cid:14)(cid:27)(cid:15)(cid:25)(cid:9)(cid:3)(cid:24)(cid:21)(cid:12)(cid:7)!" inputs) to outputs. If the output domain is categorical, the
taskiscalledclassification,andifcardinalthetaskisregres-
Figure 1.Outlineforthis So K. sion.Classicexamplesofsupervisedlearningtasksinclude:
object recognition in images [6], machine translation [7],
and spam filtering [8].
Third, defenses aim to ensure fairness (preventing biased Unsupervised learning:Whenthemethodisgivenunlabeled
outputs) and accountability (explanations of why particular inputs,itstaskisunsupervised.Thisincludesproblemssuch
outputs were generated, also known as transparency). as clustering points according to a similarity metric [9], di-
Inexploringthesefacetsofmachinelearningattacksand mensionality reduction to project data in lower dimensional
defense, we make the following contributions: subspaces [10], and model pre-training [11]. For instance,
clustering may be applied to anomaly detection [12].
• Weintroduceaunifyingthreatmodeltoallowstruc- Reinforcement learning: Data in the form of sequences of
tured reasoning about the security and privacy of actions,observations,andrewards(e.g.,runsofvideogame
systemsthatincorporate ML(Section 3).Thismodel play) fall in the scope of reinforcement learning (RL) [13],
departs from previous efforts by considering the [14]. The goal of RL is to produce a policy for acting in
entire data pipeline, of which ML is a component, the environment, and so it is the subfield of ML concerned
instead of ML algorithms in isolation. with planning and control. RL agents learn by experience
• We taxonomize attacks and defenses identified by exploring their environments. It was reinforcement learning
the various technical communities. Section 4 details in combination with supervised and unsupervised methods
the challenges of learning in adversarial settings. that recently enabled a computer to defeat a human cham-
Section 5 considersdeployedsystems.Beyondprevi- pion at the game of Go [15].
oussurveysoftheseareas,wecoverattacksmounted
Readers interested in surveys of ML are well served by
with adversarial examples and recent progress to-
many books covering this rich topic [5], [16], [17]. Work
wards practical differentially private learning.
on ML security and privacy to date has been primarily
• We systematize desirable properties to improve the
conducted in supervised settings, as reflected by our pre-
securityandprivacyofmachinelearning(Section 6).
sentation in Sections 4 and 5. Since security issues are just
asrelevantforunsupervisedandreinforcementlearning,we
ML methods take several forms, such as classification, re-
present results in more general settings when meaningful.
gression, and policy learning. For brevity and ease of expo-
sition,wefocusmuchofthecurrentpaperonclassification.
2.2. ML Stages: Training and Inference
Wefurtherstatethattherelatedstudyoftheimplicationsof
AI on safety in societies is outside the scope of this paper, Itishelpfultoseparatethetrainingstagewhereamodel
andreferinterestedreaderstoareviewby Amodeietal.[3]. is learned from input data, from the inference stage where
We present a systematization of knowledge about secu- the trained model is applied to a task.
rity and privacy in ML, focusing on attacks and defenses.
Training: Most ML models can be described as functions
Based on our analysis of the ML threat model, we have
hθ(x) taking an input x and parametrized by a vector
selected seminal and representative works from the litera- θ ∈ Θ.1 The output hθ(x) is the model’s prediction for
ture.Whileweattempttobecomprehensive,itisapractical
x of some property of interest. The input x is typically rep-
impossibilitytociteallworks.Forinstance,wedonotcover
resented as a vector of values called features. The space of
trusted computing platforms for ML [4]. We begin in the functions H={x(cid:3)→hθ(x)|θ∈Θ} is the set of candidate
nextsectionbyintroducingthebasicstructureandlexiconof
hypotheses.Alearningalgorithmutilizesthetrainingdatato
MLsystems.Thepaper’sorganizationisshownin Figure 1.
determineθ.Whenlearningissupervised,theparametersare
adjustedtoalignmodelpredictionshθ(x)withtheexpected
2. About Machine Learning output y as indicated by the dataset. This is achieved by
minimizing a loss function that captures the dissimilarity
We start with a brief overview of how systems apply
of hθ(x) and corresponding y. The model performance is
ML. In particular, we compare different kinds of learning
tasks, and some specifics of their practical implementation. 1.Somemodels(e.g.,nearest-neighbor[18])arenon-parametric.
400

Physical Digital Machine Learning Physical
Domain Representation Model Domain
Sensors,
camera, I/O
Generic Machine hardware Pre-processing Apply model Output analysis
Learning System
Object, action Bits Input features Outputs Action
Camera Pre-processing Apply model Output analysis
Automotive
Computer Vision
Traffic sign JPEG 3 D tensor in [0,1] Class probabilities Car brakes
Packet sniffing
on network card Pre-processing Apply model Output analysis
Network Intrusion
Detection
Attackk nneettwwoorrkk traffic TCP dump Packet headers Attack probability SShhuttddown
Flow metadata infrastructure
Figure 2.System’sattacksurface.Thegenericmodel(toprow)isillustratedwithtwoexamplescenarios(middleandbottomrows):acomputervision
modelusedbyanautomotivesystemtorecognizetrafficsignsontheroadandanetworkintrusiondetectionsystem.
thenvalidatedonatestdataset,whichmustbedisjointfrom following sections builds on previous treatments [19], [20],
the training dataset in order to measure the model’s gener- [21].Wefurtherdrawoninsightsfromrecentdevelopments
alization (performance on unseen data). For a supervised likeadversarialexamplesandmembershipinferenceattacks.
problem, we can evaluate model accuracy with respect to
3.1. The ML Attack Surface
test data: a set of labeled data held distinct from training
data. For example, in malware classification (see above), The attack surface of a system built with data and
accuracywouldmeasuretheproportionofpredictionshθ(x) machine learning depends on its purpose. Nevertheless, one
that matched the label y (malware or benign) associated canviewsuchsystemswithinageneralizeddataprocessing
with the executable x in the test dataset. In reinforcement pipeline (see Figure 2, top).
learning, hθ encodes a policy, and the aim of training is to
At inference, (a) input features are collected from sen-
prescribe actions that yield the highest expected reward for
sorsordatarepositories,(b)processedinthedigitaldomain,
input history x. When learning is done in an online fashion
(c) used by the model to produce an output, and (d) the
(supervised, unsupervised, or reinforcement), parameters θ
output is communicated to an external system or user and
are updated as new training points become available.
actedupon.Figure 2 illusratesthispipelinegenerically(top),
Inference: Once training completes, the model is deployed andforautonomousvehicle(middle),andnetworkintrusion
to infer predictions on inputs unseen during training. That detection systems (bottom). The ML systems collect sensor
is, the value of parameters θ are fixed, and the model com- inputs (video image, network events) from which features
putes hθ(x) for new inputs x. In our malware classification (pixels, flows) are extracted and input to the models. The
example, the model predicts the label for each executable meaning of the model output (stop sign, network attack) is
x encountered. The model prediction may take different then interpreted and action taken (stopping the car, filtering
forms but the most common for classification is a vector future traffic from an IP). Here, the attack surface for the
assigningaprobabilityforeachclassoftheproblem,which system can be defined with respect to the data processing
characterizes how likely the input is to belong to that class. pipeline. Adversaries can attempt to manipulate the collec-
For our unsupervised network intrusion detection system, tion of data, corrupt the model, or tamper with the outputs.
the model would instead return the pattern representation Recall that the model is trained using either an offline
hθ(x) that corresponds to a new input network traffic x. oronlineprocess.Thetrainingdatausedtolearnthemodel
includesvectorsoffeaturesusedasinputsduringinference,
as well as expected outputs for supervised learning or a
3. Threat Model
reward function for reinforcement learning. As discussed
The security of any system is measured with respect to below,themeansofcollectionandvalidationprocessesoffer
the adversarial goals and capabilities that it is designed to anotherattacksurface—adversarieswhocanmanipulatethe
defend against–the system’s threat model. In this section, data collection process can do so to induce targeted model
we taxonomize the definition and scope of threat models in behaviors. Similar attacks in an online setting can be quite
ML systems and map the space of security models. damaging, where the adversary can slowly alter the model
We begin by identifying the attack surface of ML sys- with crafted inputs submitted at runtime. Such attacks on
tems to inform where and how an adversary will attempt to anomaly detectors have been observed in domains such as
subvert the system. Our development of the threat model in spam and network intrusion [22].
401

Attacksagainst MLcanhavepotentiallydevastatingcon-
Pipeline (weaker)
sequences as they become more practical [23]. Defending
Model black box
against them is necessary to maintain essential properties Inference Architecture white box
for high-stakes ML systems: safety (e.g., for autonomous Parameters
vehicles),security(e.g.,intrusiondetectors),andcorrectness Arch and Params (stronger)
(e.g., regulated financial markets).
Read (weaker)
Training Injection
3.2. Trust Model Modificaiton
Logic Corruption (stronger)
Thetrustmodelofaany ML-basedsystemisdetermined
Figure 3. Adversarial Capabilities. Adversaries attack ML systems at
in large part by the context of its deployment as it relates
inference time by exploiting model internal information (white box) or
to the trust placed in the relevant actors. To abstract a bit,
probingthesystemtoinfersystemvulnerabilities(blackbox).Adversaries
we can think of the several classes of actors relevant to a usereadorwriteaccesstothetrainingdatatomimicorcorruptthemodel.
deployed ML-based system. First, there are data-owners,
who are the owners or trustees of the data/environment
that the system is deployed within, e.g., an IT organisation
deployingafacerecognitionauthenticationservice.Second, Inference Phase:Attacksatinferencetime—exploratoryat-
there are system providers which construct the system and tacks [19]—do not tamper with the targeted model but
algorithms,e.g.,theauthenticationservicesoftwarevendors. insteadeithercauseittoproduceadversaryselectedoutputs
Third, there may be consumers of the service the system (an example of an Integrity attack in the taxonomy of
provides,e.g.,theenterpriseusers.Lastly,thereareoutsiders adversarialgoalsbelow)orcollectevidenceaboutthemodel
whomayhaveexplicitorincidentalaccesstothesystems,or characteristics (a Confidentiality attack). As discussed in
maysimplybeabletoinfluencethesysteminputs,e.g.,other Section 5, the effectiveness of such attacks is largely deter-
users or adversaries within the enterprise. Note that there mined by the information that is available to the adversary
may be multiple users, providers, data-owners, or outsiders about the model and its use in the target environment.
involved in a given deployment. Inferencephaseattackscanbeclassifiedintoeitherwhite
A trust model for the given system assigns a level of boxorblackboxattacks.Inwhiteboxattacks,theadversary
trust to each actor within that deployment. Any actor can hassomeinformationaboutthemodeloritsoriginaltraining
be trusted, untrusted, or partially trusted (trusted to perform data, possibly due to untrusted actors in the data processing
or not perform certain actions). The sum of those trust pipeline.Whiteboxattacksmaybefurtherdistinguishedby
assumptionsformsthetrustmodel–andthereinidentifiesthe the information used: about the model architecture (algo-
potential ways that bad actors may attack the system. We rithm and structure of the hypothesis h), model parameters
do not seek in this paper to identify a specific trust model θ (weights), training data, or combinations of these. The
or even set of “good” trust models (a likely impossible adversary exploits available information to identify where
endeavour), but to highlight the dangers presented by bad a model is vulnerable. For example, an adversary who has
actors.Here,weexplorethespaceoftrustmodelssimplyby access to the model h and its parameters θ may identify
viewingthemthroughtheprismoftheadversarialcapability parts of the feature space for which the model has high
space(seenext Section).Inthisway,weprovideinsightinto error, and exploit that by altering an input into that space,
any trust model appropriate for a given deployment. as in adversarial example crafting [24].
Conversely black box attacks assume no knowledge
about the model. The adversary in these attacks use in-
3.3. Adversarial Capabilities
formation about the setting or past inputs to infer model
vulnerability.Forexample,inanoracleattack,theadversary
A threat model is also defined by the actions and infor-
explores a model by providing a series of carefully crafted
mation the adversary has at their disposal. The definition
inputs and observing outputs [25]. Oracle attacks work
of security is made with respect to stronger or weaker
because a good deal of information about a model can be
adversaries who have more or less access to the system
extracted from input/output pairs, and relatively little infor-
and its data. The term capabilities refers to the whats and
mation is required because of the transferability property
howsoftheavailableattacks,anddefinesthepossibleattack
exhibited by many model architectures (See Section 5.2).
vectorsonathreatsurface.Forinstance,innetworkintrusion
detection, an internal adversary may have access to the Training Phase: Attacks on training attempt to learn, in-
model used to distinguish attacks from normal behavior, fluence, or corrupt the model itself. The simplest and ar-
whereasaweakereavesdroppingadversarymayhaveaccess guably weakest attack on training is simply accessing a
only to TCP dumps of the network traffic. Here the attack summary,aportion,orallofthetrainingdata.Thiscouldbe
surface is constant, but the attacker with more information through explicit attacks or via an untrusted data collection
is a strictly stronger adversary. We explore the range of at- component. Depending on the quality and volume of data,
tackercapabilitiesin MLsystemsastheyrelatetoinference the adversary can create a substitute model (also referred
and training phases (see Figure 3). to as a surrogate or auxiliary model) to mount attacks on
402

the victim system. For example, the adversary can use a exposure of the model and training data. Distinguishing the
substitute model to test potential inputs before submitting two notions is a result of the trust model.
them to the victim [26]. Note that these attacks are offline Machine learning models have enough capacity to cap-
attempts at model reconnaissance, and thus may be used to ture and memorize elements of their training data [29]. As
undermine privacy (see below). such, it is hard to provide guarantees that participation in a
There are two broad attack strategies for altering the datasetdoesnotharmtheprivacyofanindividual.Potential
model. The first alters the training data either by inserting risks are adversaries performing membership test (to know
adversarial inputs into the existing training data (injection), whetheranindividualisinadatasetornot)[30],recovering
possibly as a malicious user, or altering the training data of partially known inputs (use the model to complete an in-
directly (modification) by direct attacks or via an untrusted putvector withthemost likelymissingbits), andextraction
data collection component. In the case of reinforcement of the training data using the model’s predictions [29].
learning, the adversary may modify the environment in Integrity and Availability: Attacks on integrity and avail-
which the agent is evolving. Lastly, the adversaries can ability are with respect to model outputs. Here the goal
tamperwiththelearningalgorithm,sometimeseasilybycol- is to induce model behavior as chosen by the adversary.
luding with an untrusted ML training component. We refer Attacksattemptingtocontrolmodeloutputsareattheheart
to these attacks as logic corruption. Obviously, adversaries of integrity attacks—the integrity of the inference process
that alter the learning logic (and thus controls the model is undermined. For example, attacks that attempt to induce
itself) are very powerful and difficult to defend against. false positives in a face recognition system affect the au-
thenticationprocess’sintegrity[23].Closelyrelated,attacks
onavailabilityattempttoreducethequality(e.g.,confidence
3.4. Adversarial Goals
or consistency), performance (e.g., speed), or access (e.g.,
denial of service). Here again, while the goals of these two
Thelastpieceofathreatmodelspecifiesthegoalsofthe
classes of attacks may be different, the means by which the
adversary. We model desired ends as impacting confiden-
adversary achieves them is often similar.
tiality, integrity, and availability (the CIA triad mentioned
Integrityisessentialin ML,andisthecenterofattention
in Section 1), and adding a fourth property, privacy. An
for most performance metrics used: e.g., accuracy [31].
interesting duality emerges when taking a view in this way:
However, researchers have shown that the integrity of ML
attacks on system integrity and availability are closely re-
systems may be compromised by adversaries capable of
lated in goal and method, as are confidentiality and privacy.
manipulating model inputs [24] or its training data [32].
Integrity and privacy can both be understood at the level of
First, the ML model’s confidence may be targeted by an
the MLmodel,aswellasfortheentiresystemdeployingit.
adversary: reducing this value may change the behavior
Availability is however ill defined for a model in isolation
of the overall system. For instance, an intrusion detection
but makes sense for the system and environment it operates
systemmayonlyraiseanalarmwhenitsconfidenceisovera
in. Desirable security properties may also be defined and
specified threshold. Input misprocessing aims at misleading
enforced at the level of this environment. The security of
the model into producing wrong outputs for some inputs,
the MLmodelisanecessarybutnotsufficientconditionfor
either modified at the entrance of the pipeline, or at the
establishing the security of the environment. For instance,
input of the model directly. Depending on the task type,
integrity and availability of a driverless car’s vision model
the wrong outputs differ. For a ML classifier, it may assign
is needed but not sufficient to guarantee availability of the
the wrong class to a legitimate image, or classify noise
roadtoothervehicles.Thisaspectfallsoutsidethescopeof
with confidence. For an unsupervised feature extractor, it
our survey, and calls for future treatment similar to the one
may produce a meaningless representation of the input. For
of Amodei et al. for safety-related issues [3]. We discuss
a reinforcement learning agent, it may act unintelligently
belowtherangeofadversarialgoalsthatrelatetoeachrisk.
giventheenvironmentstate.However,whentheadversaryis
Confidentiality and Privacy: Attacks on confidentiality and capable of subverting the input-output mapping completely,
privacy are with respect to the model and data. If the it can control the model and the system’s behavior. For in-
adversaryisanuntrusteduserofthemodel,itmayattemptto stance,itmayforceanautomotive’scomputervisionsystem
extractinformationaboutthemodel.Theseattacksgenerally tomisprocessatrafficsign,resultinginthecaraccelerating.
fall under the realm of confidentiality. When the ML model Availability is somewhat different than integrity, as it is
itself represents intellectual property and its consumers are about the prevention of access to an asset: an output or an
not trusted by the model owner, it requires that the model action induced by a model output. Hence, the goal of these
and its parameters be confidential, e.g., financial market attacksistomakethemodelinconsistentorunreliableinthe
systems [27]. On the contrary, if the model owner is not target environment. For example, the goal of the adversary
trusted by model users, these users might want to protect attacking an autonomous vehicle may be to get it to behave
theconfidentialityoftheirdatafromthemodelownerorthe erratically or non-deterministically in a given environment.
privacy of their data from attacks mounted by other model Yet most of the attacks in this space require corrupting the
users.Thisisacommonsettinginmedicalapplications[28]. modelthroughtraininginputpoisoningandotherconfidence
Regardless of the goal, the attacks and defenses for confi- reduction attacks using many of the same methods used for
dentiality and privacy relate to exposing or preventing the integrity attacks.
403

Ifthesystemdependsontheoutputofthe MLmodelto some degree of knowledge about the learning procedure,
take decisions that impact its availability, it may be subject in order to disrupt it through manipulations of the data.
to attacks falling under the broad category of denial of
Label manipulation: When adversaries are able only to
service. Continuing with the previous example, an attack
modify the labeling information contained in the training
that produces vision inputs that force a autonomous vehicle
dataset,theattacksurfaceislimited:theymustfindthemost
to stop immediately may cause a denial of service by pre-
harmful labels to perturb in the data given partial or full
venting its owner from using it. More broadly, ML models
knowledge of the learning algorithm ran by the defender.
may also not perform correctly when some of their input
The baseline strategy is to perturb the labels (i.e., ran-
features are corrupted or missing [33]. Thus, by denying
domly draw new labels) for a fraction of the training data.
access to these features we can subvert the system.
In practice, Biggio et al. showed that this was sufficient to
degrade the inference performance of SVM classifiers [37],
4. Training in Adversarial Settings as long as the adversary randomly flips about 40% of
the training labels. It is unclear whether this attack would
As parameters θ of the hypothesis h are fine-tuned generalizetomulti-classclassifiers,withmorethan 2 output
during learning, the training dataset analyzed is potentially classes (they only considered binary tasks, where swapping
vulnerable to manipulations by adversaries. This scenario the labels is guaranteed to be very harmful to the model).
corresponds to a poisoning attack [19], and is an instance Heuristics improve the adversary’s chances of success.
oflearninginthepresenceofnon-necessarilyadversarialbut Biggio et al. [37] observe that poisoning points classified
neverthelessnoisydata[34].Intrusiondetectionsystemsare with confidence by the model later further degrades the
aprevalentexampleofthesesettings.Poisoningattacksalter model’s performance during inference. In fact, they reduce
thetrainingdatasetbyinserting,editing,orremovingpoints the ratio of poisoned points needed to reduce accuracy by
with the intent of modifying the decision boundaries of the about 10 percentagepointswhencomparedtorandomlabel
targeted model [32], thus targeting the learning system’s flipping. A similar attack approach has been applied in the
integrityperourthreatmodelfrom Section 3.Itissomewhat context of healthcare [38]. These attacks require that a new
obvious that an unbounded adversary can cause the learner ML model be learned for each new candidate poisoning
tolearnanyarbitraryfunctionhleadingtocompleteunavail- point in order to measure the candidate’s impact on the
ability of the system. Thus, all the attacks below bound the updated model’s performance during inference. This high
adversaryintheirattacks[35].Modificationsofthetraining computation cost can be explained by the largely unknown
datacanbeseenasalteringthedistribution Dthatgenerated relationshipbetweenperformancemetricsrespectivelycom-
the training data, thereby creating a mismatch between the puted on the training and test data. However, for models
distributions used for training and inference. In Section 6.1, wheresucharelationshipisbetterunderstood,itispossible
we present a line of work that builds on that observation to tofindnear-optimalsetsoflabelsthatneedtobeflipped—as
propose learning strategies robust to distribution drifts [36]. demonstrated by Xiao et al. with SVMs [39].
Upon surveying the field, we note that works almost
exclusively discuss poisoning attacks against classifiers (su- Our take-away 4.1. Bounds on the generalization
pervised models trained with labeled data). Yet, as we error (the difference in performance of a model on
strive to generalize our observations to other types of ML trainingandtestingdistributions)areoftenloose[40],
tasks (see Section 2), we note that the strategies described in which case it is difficult to quantify the impact of
belowmayapply,asmany RLalgorithmsemploysupervised poisoning attacks on inference.
components.Thisisforinstancethecasefor Alpha Go[15].
Input manipulation: In this threat model, the adversary
can corrupt the input features of training points processed
4.1. Targeting Integrity
by the model, in addition to its labels. These works assume
knowledge of the learning algorithm and training set.
Kearns et al. theoretically analyzed the accuracy of
learningclassifierswhentheadversaryisallowedtomodify Direct poisoning of the learning inputs: The attack surface
training samples with probability β [32]. For large datasets, of a ML model is often exacerbated when learning is
this adversarial capability can be interpreted as the ability performed online, that is, with new training points added
to modify a fraction β of the training data. One of their by observing the environment in which the system evolves.
fundamentalresultsstatesthatachievinganerrorrateof(cid:4)at Most efforts in this area focus on clustering models, where
inference requires β ≤ (cid:3) for any learning algorithm. For theintuitivestrategyforadversariesistoslowlydisplacethe
1+(cid:3)
example, to achieve 90% accuracy ((cid:4) = 0.1) the adversary centeroftheclustertohavepointsmisclassifiedatinference.
manipulation rate must be less than 10%. The efforts below Kloft et al. insert poisoned points in a training set used
explorethisresultfromapracticalstandpointandintroduce for anomaly detection, and demonstrate how this gradually
poisoning attacks against ML algorithms. We organize our shiftsthedecisionboundaryofacentroidmodel,i.e.amodel
discussion around the adversarial capabilities highlighted in thatclassifiesatestinputasmaliciouswhenitistoofarfrom
theprecedingsection.Unlikesomeattacksatinference(see the empirical mean of the training data [22]. This model is
Section 5.2), training time attacks almost always require learned in an online fashion—new training data is collected
404

atregularintervalsandtheparametervaluesθarecomputed 5. Inferring in Adversarial Settings
onaslidingwindowofthatdata.Poisoningpointsarefound
Adversaries may also attack ML systems at inference
by solving a linear programming problem that maximizes
time,oncethedeployedmodel’sparametershavebeenfixed.
the displacement of the centroid. This formulation exploits
For instance, the attacker may be targeting an intrusion
thesimplicityofcentroidmodels,whichessentiallyevaluate
detectionsystem’swhoseruleswerelearnedandfixed.Thus,
Euclidean distances to compute the empirical mean of the
the attacker is interested in mounting a variant of its attack
training data. This attack is unlikely to apply when the
that will instantly evade detection at runtime. Strong white-
relationship between training data and the model is not as
box attackers have access to the model internals (e.g., its
explicit. The approach was later revisited in the context of
architectureandparameters),whereasblack-boxadversaries
malware clustering [41]: malware is modified to include
are limited to interacting with the model as an oracle (e.g.,
additional behavioral features that place it between two ex-
bysubmittinginputsandobservingthemodel’spredictions).
isting clusters in the model’s input domain, thus eventually
In practice, capabilities range on a spectrum between these
decreasing the distance between clusters.
twoextrema.Thisperspectiveisusedtostructurethepresent
Inthesettingsofofflinelearning,Biggioetal.introduce
section, of which Figure 4 provides an overview. Note that
an attack that identifies poisoning points by gradient ascent
mostprivacyandconfidentialityattacksaremotivatedinthe
on the test error of the model [56]. Adding these inputs to
black-boxsetting,andseektoexposerespectivelyproperties
the training set results in a degraded classification accuracy
of the data or the model itself (see Section 5.2).
atinference.Theirapproachis(atleastintheory)specificto
SVMs, because it relies on the existence of a closed-form
5.1. White-box adversaries
formulation of the model’s test error, which in their case
follows from the assumption that support vectors 2 do not White-box adversaries have varying degrees of access
change as a result of the insertion of poisoning points. Mei to the model h as well as its parameters θ. This strong
et al. [57] fall under this class of approaches but derive the threat model allows the adversary to conduct particularly
gradientascentformulationdifferently,byrelaxingabilevel devastating attacks. While it is often difficult to obtain,
optimization problem (similarly to label flipping attacks white-boxaccessisnotalwaysunrealistic.Forinstance,ML
like [39]). Later, this same gradient ascent strategy was modelstrainedondatacentersarecompressedanddeployed
adapted to feature selection algorithms like LASSO [58]. tosmartphones[62],inwhichcasereverseengineeringmay
Suchmanipulationsofthelearninginputsarealsoeffec- enable adversaries to recover the model’s internals (e.g., its
tivewaystotargetreinforcementlearningagents.Behzadan parameter values) and thus obtain white-box access.
etal.showedthatgradientascenttechniquesdesignedinthe
Integrity: To target a system’s prediction integrity at infer-
contextofadversarialexamples(see Section 5 foradetailed
ence, adversaries perturb the inputs of the ML model. This
presentation of these techniques) were able to induce the
can be interpreted as modifying the distribution that gener-
agent into learning the wrong policy [59].
atesdataatinference.Wefirstdescribestrategiesthatrequire
Indirect poisoning of the learning inputs: Adversaries with direct manipulation of model inputs, and then consider
no access to the pre-processed data must instead poison indirect perturbations resilient to the pre-processing stages
the model’s training data before its pre-processing (see of the system’s data pipeline (as illustrated in Figure 2).
Figure 2). For instance, Perdisci et al. prevented Polygraph,
Direct manipulation of model inputs: Here, adversaries di-
a worm signaturegeneration tool [60], fromlearning mean-
rectly alter the feature values processed by the model. For
ingful signatures by inserting perturbations in worm traffic
instance, the adversary’s goal may be to have a classifier
flows [61]. Polygraph combines a flow tokenizer together
assign the wrong class to inputs [19]. Szegedy et al. coined
with a classifier that determines whether a flow should be
the term adversarial example to refer to such inputs [24].
in the signature. Polymorphic worms are crafted with noisy
Similar to concurrent work [42], they formalize the search
trafficflowssuchthat(1)theirtokenizedrepresentationswill
for adversarial examples as a minimization problem:
share tokens not representative of the worm’s traffic flow,
and (2) they modify the classifier’s threshold for using a argminh(x+r)=l s.t. x ∗ =x+r∈D (1)
r
signature to flag worms. This attack forces Polygraph to
generate signatures with tokens that do not correspond to
Theinputx,correctlyclassifiedbyh,isperturbedwithr to
invariants of the worm’s behavior.
produceanadversarialexamplex ∗ thatremainsintheinput
domain Dbutisassignedthetargetlabell.Whenthetargetl
4.2. Targeting Privacy and Confidentiality ischosen,theattackisasource-targetmisclassification[21]
(also referred to as targeted in the literature). When l can
During training, the confidentiality and privacy of the
be any label different from h(x), the attack is said to be
data and model are not impacted by the fact that ML is
a simple misclassification (or sometimes to be untargeted).
used, but rather the extent of the adversary’s access to the
Attacks constructing adversarial examples differ from one
system hosting them. This is a traditional access control
another by the approximation they use to solve Equation 1
problem, which falls outside the scope of our discussion.
when the model h is not convex.
2.Supportvectorsarethesubsetoftrainingpointsthatsufficetodefine The first class of attack techniques applies existing
thedecisionboundaryofasupportvectormachine. optimizers. For instance, Szegedy et al. use the L-BFGS
405

Integrity Privacy
Knowledge Accesstomodelinput Accessto Source-target Trainingdata Model
ofmodelh θ xandoutputh(x) trainingdata Misprediction misprediction Membership extraction extraction
Full No [42],[43],[44] [24],[21],[44],[45],[46] [47] [48]
White-Box
Throughpipelineonly No [49],[50],[23] [50],[23]
Yes No [51] [30],[47] [52],[29] [53]
Black-Box Inputxonly Yes [26],[24],[43] [24] [53]
No [25],[54] [55]
Throughpipelineonly No [50]
Figure 4.Attacksatinference:alloftheseworksarediscussedin Section 5 andrepresentthethreatmodelsexploredbytheresearchcommunity.
algorithm[63]tosolve Equation 1,whichhandlestheinput Our take-away 5.1. Modelsoftenextrapolatelinearly
domainconstraintbydesign.Theywerethefirsttofindthat from the limited subspace covered by the training
awiderangeof MLmodels,includingdeepneuralnetworks data [43]. Algorithms can exploit this regularity in di-
withstate-of-the-artaccuracyonvisiontasksweremisledby recting search toward prospective adversarial regions.
perturbations r imperceptible to humans. Carlini et al. [46]
revisitedthisapproachwithadifferentoptimizer,Adam,by
Indirect manipulation of model inputs: When the adversary
encoding the domain constraint as a change of variable.
cannot directly modify feature values used as model inputs,
Other techniques make assumptions to solve Equation 1
it must find perturbations preserved by the data pipeline
efficiently. This is notably the case of the fast gradient sign
that precedes the classifier in the overall targeted system.
method introduced by Goodfellow et al. [43]. A lineariza-
Strategies operating in this threat model construct adversar-
tion assumption reduces the computation of an adversarial
example x ∗ to: x ∗ = x+(cid:4)·sign(∇ (cid:4)x Jh(θ,x,y)), where ial examples in the physical domain stage of Figure 2.
Kurakin et al. showed how printouts of adversarial ex-
Jh is the cost function used to train the model h. Despite
amples produced by the fast gradient sign algorithm were
the approximation made, a model with close to state-of-
stillmisclassifiedbyanobjectrecognitionmodel[50].They
the-art performance on MNIST, a widely-used corpus of
fed the model with photographs of the printouts, thus re-
70,000 handwritten digits used for validating ML systems
producing the typical pre-processing stage of a computer
for pattern recognition [64], misclassifies 89.4% of this
visionsystem’sdatapipeline.Theyalsofoundthesephysical
method’s adversarial examples. This empirically validates
adversarialexamplestoberesilienttopre-processingdefor-
thehypothesisthaterroneousmodelpredictionsonadversar-
mations like contrast modifications or blurring. Sharif et al.
ial examples are likely due to the linear extrapolation made
applied the approach introduced in [24] to find adversarial
by components of ML models (e.g., individual neurons of
examples that are printed on glasses frames, which once
a DNN) for inputs far from the training data.
worn by an individual result in its face being misclassified
In Equation 1,theminimizationofperturbationr canbe
byafacerecognitionmodel[23].Addingpenaltiestoensure
expressedwithdifferentmetrics.Theseformulationsalllead
theperturbationsarephysicallyrealizable(i.e.,printable)in
todifferentattacks[21],[44],[65].Thechoiceofanappro-
Equation 1 is sufficient to conduct misclassification attacks
priate metric (often a (cid:5)p norm) is problem-dependent. For
(the face is misclassified in any wrong class), and to a
instance, when crafting malware that evades detection by a
more limited extent source-target misclassification attacks
MLsystem,itiseasiertointroduceperturbationsrthatonly
(the face is misclassified in a chosen target class).
modify a limited subset of the features, rather than making
small changes to all features [49]. To this effect, Papernot
Ourtake-away 5.2. Toberesilienttothepipeline’sde-
etal.introduceda Jacobian-basedadversarialexamplealgo-
formations, adversarial examples in physical domains
rithmthatminimizesthe L 0 normofr [21],i.e.thenumber
need to introduce adapted, often larger, perturbations.
of features perturbed. On average, only 4% of the features
This suggests that enforcing physical realizability and
ofan MNISTtestsetinputareperturbedtohaveitclassified
domain constraints may reduce a model’s error space.
in a chosen target class with 97% success—whereas most
oftheapproachesintroducedpreviouslyperturbedtheentire
input(albeitbysmallerchanges)toachievethissuccessrate. Beyond classification:Alfeldetal.[45]examineautoregres-
Thevarietyofalgorithmsthatfindadversarialdirections sivemodels,wherethepredictionxtofatimes(cid:2)eriesdepends
k
suggests that model errors form a continuous space rather on previous k realizations of x, that is, xt =
i=1
cixt−i;
than being scattered in small pockets throughout the mod- such models are prevalent in market prediction. An adver-
els’ output surface. Warde-Farley and Goodfellow showed sary manipulates the input data with the goal of achiev-
that adversarial examples form a space of dimension at ing their desired prediction, given budget constraints. The
least two [66]. Later, Trame`r et al. introduced the Gradient authors formulate the adversary’s manipulation problem as
Aligned Adversarial Subspace method, which uses a first- quadratic optimization and provide efficient solutions.
orderapproximationsimilartotheoneusedtodefinethefast Adversarialexamplesalsoapplytoreinforcementlearn-
gradientsignmethodtodirectlyestimatethedimensionality ing.Huangetal.demonstratedthata RLagentisvulnerable
of the dense space formed by adversarial examples [67]. to adversarial perturbations of its environment after it has
406

been trained [68]. Using the fast gradient method (see a Service cloud platforms, where the model is potentially
above), the adversary induces the agent into misbehaving accessible through a query interface. Without access to the
immediatelyoratalatertime—effectivelycreating“sleeper trainingdataor MLalgorithm,queryingthetargetmodeland
agents”thatbehavecorrectlyforseveraltimestepsafterthe knowledgeoftheclassoftargetmodelsallowstheadversary
environment was perturbed before taking wrong actions. toreconstructthemodelwithsimilaramountsofquerydata
asusedintraining[71]Thus,akeymetricwhencomparing
Ourtake-away 5.3. Althoughresearchhasfocusedon differentattacksisthewealthofinformationreturnedbythe
classification, adversarial example algorithms extend oracle, and the number of oracle queries.
to other settings like reinforcement learning: e.g., the
Integrity: Lowd et al. estimate the cost of misclassifica-
adversary perturbs a frame in a video game to force
tion in terms of the number of queries to the black-box
an agent to take wrong actions.
model [72]. The adversary has oracle access to the model.
Privacy and Confidentiality: Confidentiality attacks in the A cost function is associated with modifying an input x
white-box threat model are trivial because the adversary to a target instance x ∗. The cost function is a weighted
already has access to the model parameters. As discussed l 1 differencebetweenx ∗andx.Theauthorsintroduce ACRE
in Section 3, adversaries targeting the privacy of data ma- learnability, which poses the problem of finding the least
nipulated by a ML system are interested in recovering cost modification to have a malicious input classified as
information about either the training data. The simplest benign using a polynomial number of queries to the ML
attack against data consists in performing a membership oracle. It is shown that continous features allow for ACRE
test, i.e. determining whether a particular input was used learnability while discrete features make the problem NP-
in the training dataset of a model. Stronger opponents may hard. Because ACRE learnability also depends on the cost
seek to extract fully or partially unknown training points. function, it is a different problem from reverse engineering
Few attacks operate in the white-box threat model, as the the model. Following up on this thread, Nelson et al. [73]
black-box model (see below) is more realistic for privacy. identify the space of convex inducing classifiers—those
Ateniese et al. infer statistical information about the where one of the classes is a convex set—that are ACRE
training data from a trained model hθ [48], that is, whether learnable but not necessarily reverse engineerable.
its training data verified a certain statistical property. Their
Direct manipulation of model inputs: Adversaries with ac-
attack generates several datasets, where some exhibit the
cess to class probabilities can recover many details of the
statistical property and others do not. A model is trained
underlying black-box model, as shown by model extraction
on each dataset independently. The adversary then trains
attacks (see paragraph below). In these settings, Xu et al.
a meta-classifier: it takes as its inputs these models and
apply a genetic algorithm. The fitness of genetic variants
predicts if their dataset verified the statistical property. The
obtainedbymutationisdefinedintermsoftheoracle’sclass
meta-classifieristhenappliedtothemodelofinteresthθ to
probability predictions [51]. The approach evades a random
fulfill the initial adversarial goal. One limitation is that all
forestand SVMusedformalwaredetection.However,com-
classifiers must be trained with the same technique than the
putingthegeneticvariantsisachallengeforproblemswhere
model hθ being attacked.
the number of input features is larger.
When the adversary cannot access probabilities, it is
5.2. Black-box adversaries
more difficult to extract information about the decision
When attacking black-box systems, adversaries do not boundary, a pre-requisite to find input perturbations that
know the model internals. This prohibits the strategies de- result in erroneous predictions. In the following works,
scribedin Section 5.1:forinstance,integrityattacksrequire the adversary only observes the first and last stage of the
that the attacker compute gradients defined using the model pipelinefrom Figure 2:e.g.,theinput(whichtheyproduce)
h and its parameters θ. However, black-box access is per- andtheclasslabelinclassificationtasks.Szegedyetal.first
hapsamorerealisticthreatmodel,asallitrequiresisaccess observed adversarial example transferability [24]: i.e., the
to the output responses. For instance, an adversary seeking propertythatadversarialexamplescraftedtobemisclassified
to penetrate a computer network rarely has access to the by a model are likely to be misclassified by a different
specificationsofitsintrusiondetectionsystem—buttheycan model.Thistransferabilitypropertyholdsevenwhenmodels
often observe how it responds to network events. Similar are trained on different datasets.
attacks are key to performing reconnaissance in networks Assuming the availability of surrogate data to the ad-
to determine their environmental detection and response versary, Laskov et al. explored the strategy of training a
policies. We focus on strategies designed irrespectively of substitute model for the targeted one [26]. They exploit
thedomain MLisbeingappliedto,albeitheuristicsspecific a semantic gap to evade a malware PDF detector: they
to certain applications exist, e.g., spam filtering [69], [70]. inject additional features that are not interpreted by PDF
Acommonthreatmodelforblack-boxadversariesisthe renderers. As such, their attack does not generalize well to
one of an oracle, borrowed from the cryptography commu- other application domains or models.
nity: the adversary may issue queries to the ML model and Papernot et al. used adversarial example transferability
observe its output for any chosen input. This is particularly toconductblack-boxattacks[25].Theyshowhowattackers
relevant in the increasingly popular environment of ML as canforcearemotelyhosted MLmodeltomisclassifyinputs
407

without access to its architecture, parameters, or training data, with numerous applications such as compression or
data.Theattacktrainsasubstitutemodelusingsyntheticin- learningwithlittlesupervision(i.e.,fewtraininglabels).The
putsgeneratedbytheadversaryandlabeledbyqueryingthe attack of Hayes et al. relies on a specific framework for
oracle.Thesubstitutemodelisthenusedtocraftadversarial generative models named generative adversarial networks
examplesthattransferbackto(i.e.,aremisclassifiedby)the (GAN)[74].Theyshowthatthediscriminator modelinthe
originally targeted model. They force Meta Mind, an online GAN framework (used during training to evaluate the per-
deeplearning API,tomisclassifyinputsatratesabove 84%. formance of the generative model by comparing its outputs
In a follow-up work [54], the attack is generalized to many to samples from the training distribution) can be leveraged
MLmodels.Forinstance,theattackonalogisticregression in similar ways to the shadow models of Shokri et al. [30].
hosted by Amazon has a success rate of 96%. Given a set of training points, their attack identifies points
This strategy is more likely to create adversarial exam- which the generative model is likely to have been trained
ples that transfer (i.e., evade the targeted model) in a target on by observing the confidence of the discriminator model.
class chosen by the adversary if they simultaneously evade
Training data extraction:Fredriksonetal.presentthemodel
several substitute models with different architectures [55].
inversionattack[52].Foramedicinedosagepredictiontask,
theyshowthatgivenaccesstothemodelandauxiliaryinfor-
Our take-away 5.4. Adversarial examples transfer
mation about the patient’s stable medicine dosage, they can
from one model to another because their individual
recovergenomicinformationaboutthepatient.Althoughthe
error spaces are high-dimensional, making it likely
approach illustrates privacy concerns that may arise from
that these error spaces will intersect. In addition, two
giving access to ML models trained on sensitive data, it is
modelssolvingthesame MLtaskwithcomparableper-
unclear whether the genomic information is recovered be-
formancearelikelytohavesimilardecisionboundaries
causeofthe MLmodelorthestrongcorrelationbetweenthe
auxiliary information that the adversary also has access to
Data pipeline manipulation: Kurakin et al. [50] showed
(the patient’s dosage) [75]. Model inversion enables adver-
experimentally that transferability holds in spite of pre-
saries to extract training data from model predictions [29].
processingstagesofthesystem’sdatapipeline.Indeed,they
However, the inputs extracted are not specific points of the
evaluated their physical adversarial examples (i.e., printouts
training dataset, but rather an average representation of the
of an adversarial image) both on the model that they were
inputs that are classified in a class—similar to what is done
targeting and a different model used by a smartphone app
by saliency maps [76]. The demonstration is convincing
to recognize objects. Their results show that the physically
in[29]becauseeachclasscorrespondstoasingleindividual.
printedperturbationsreliablyfoolboththemodeltheywere
originally targeting and the second black-box model. Model extraction: Among direct confidentiality considera-
tions like intellectual property, extracting ML model also
Privacy and Confidentiality: In black-box settings, adver-
has privacy implications—as models have been shown to
saries targeting privacy may pursue the goals discussed in
memorize training data at least partially. Tramer et al. show
white-box settings: membership attacks and training data
howtoextractparametersofamodelfromtheobservationof
extraction. In addition, since the model internals are now
its predictions [53]. Their attack consists in applying equa-
unknown to them, extracting model parameters themselves
tion solving to recover parameters θ from sets of observed
is now a valid goal when targeting model confidentiality.
input-output pairs (x,hθ(x)). While simple, the approach
Membership attacks: This type of adversary is looking to is difficult to scale to scenarios where the adversary loses
test whether or not a specific point was part of the training access to the probabilities returned for each class, i.e. when
dataset analyzed to learn the model’s parameters. Shokri it can only access the label. This leaves room for future
et al. show how to conduct this type of attack against work to make such extraction techniques more practical.
black-box models [30]. Their strategy exploits differences
in the model’s confidence on points that were or were 6. Towards Robust, Private, and Accountable
not seen during training. For each class of the targeted Machine Learning Models
black-box model, they train several shadow models. Each
After presenting attacks conducted at training in Sec-
shadow model is trained to solve the membership inference
tion 4 and inference in Section 5, we cover efforts at the
test with synthetic samples of the corresponding class. The
intersectionofsecurity,privacy,and MLthatarerelevantto
procedure that generates synthetic data is initialized with
their mitigation. We draw parallels between the seemingly
a random input and performs hill climbing by querying the
unrelated goals of: (a) robustness to distribution drifts, (b)
originalmodeltofindmodificationsoftheinputthatyielda
learning privacy-preserving models, and (c) fairness and
classification with strong confidence in the class of interest.
accountability.Manyoftheseremainlargelyopenproblems,
Thesesyntheticinputsareassumedtobestatisticallysimilar
thus we draw insights useful for future work.
to inputs contained in the black-box model’s training data.
Hayesetal.extendtheattacktotheunsupervisedlearn- 6.1. Robustness of models to distribution drifts
ingofgenerativemodels[47].Moderngenerativeapproaches
often learn a neural network that models the distribution of To mitigate the integrity attacks presented in Section 5,
trainingpoints.Thesemodelsareusedtogeneratesynthetic ML needs to be robust to distribution drifts: i.e., situa-
408

tions where the training and test distributions differ. In- (a) Defended model (b) Substitute model
deed, adversarial manipulations are instances of such drifts. h(x∗)
During inference, an adversary might introduce positively
connotated words in spam emails to evade detection, thus h(x)
creating a test distribution different from the one analyzed ∗ ∗
x x x x
during training [70]. The opposite, modifying the training
distribution,isalsopossible:theadversarymightincludean r r
Figure 5. Evading infinitesimal defenses using transferability: the de-
identical keyword in many spam emails used for training,
fendedmodelissmoothinneighborhoodsoftrainingpoints:i.e.,gradients
and then submit spam ommiting that keyword at test time. of the model outputs with respect to its inputs are zero and the adver-
sary does not know in which direction to look for adversarial examples.
Defending against training-time attacks: Most defense However, the adversary can use the substitute model’s gradients to find
mechanism at training-time rely on the fact that poisoning adversarial examples that transfer back to the defended model. Note that
samples are typically out of the expected input distribution. thiseffectwouldbeexacerbatedbymodelswithmorethanonedimension.
Rubinstein et al. [77] pull from robust statistics to build
a PCA-based detection model robust to poisoning. To limit
of the model h with respect to its inputs. These gradients
the influence of outliers to the training distribution, they
areminimizedduringthelearningphase:hencethegradient
constrainthe PCAalgorithmtosearchforadirectionwhose
masking terminology. We detail why this intuitive strategy
projectionsmaximizeaunivariatedispersionmeasurebased
is bound to have limited success.
on robust projection pursuit estimators instead of the stan-
Guetal.introducedeepcontractivenetworks,aclassof
dard deviation. In a similar approach, Biggio et al. limit
modelstrainedusingasmoothnesspenalty[82].Thepenalty
the vulnerability of SVMs to training label manipulations
isdefinedwiththenormofthemodel’s Jacobianmatrix,and
by adding a regularization term to the loss function, which
is approximated layer by layer to preserve computational
in turn reduces the model sensitivity to out-of-diagonal
efficiency. Although contractive models are more robust to
kernelmatrixelements[37].Theirapproachdoesnotimpact
adversaries, the penalty reduces their capacity, with conse-
the convexity of the optimization problem unlike previous
quences on their performance and applicability.
attempts[78],[79],whichreducestheimpactofthedefense
Theapproachintroducedin[83]doesnotinvolvetheex-
mechanism on performance.
pensive computation of gradient-based penalties. The tech-
Barreno et al. make proposals to secure learning [19]. nique is an adaptation of distillation [62], a mechanism
These include the use of regularization in the optimization designed to compress large models into smaller ones while
problemssolvedtotrain MLmodels.Thisremovessomeof preservingpredictionaccuracy.Inanutshell,thelargemodel
the complexity exploitable by an adversary. Alternatively, labels data with class probabilities, which are then used to
they also propose using obfuscation or disinformation: the train the small model. Instead of compression, the authors
defender keeps a holdout set of the data or some details of apply distillation to increase the robustness of DNNs to
themodelsecret.However,thisviolatessecurityfundamen- adversarial samples. They report that the additional entropy
tals, such as the ones stated by Kerckhoffs [80]. in probability vectors (compared to labels) yields models
Recently, Steindhardt et al. extended this line of work with smoother output surfaces. In experiments with the fast
by augmenting the defender with a detection model that gradient sign method [84] and the Jacobian attack [83],
attempts to remove data points outside a feasible set (i.e., largerperturbationsarerequiredtoachievemisclassification
outliers) before the model is learned [81]. of adversarial examples by the distilled model. However,
Carlini and Wagner [46] identified a variant of the attack
Defending against inference-time attacks: The difficulty
in [24], which distillation fails to mitigate.
in attaining robustness to adversarial manipulations at in-
A simpler variant of distillation, called label smooth-
ference stems from the inherent complexity of ML models’
ing[85],improvesrobustnesstoadversarialsamplescrafted
output surfaces. Yet, a paradox arises from the observation
using the fast gradient sign method [86]. It replaces hard
thatthiscomplexityof MLhypothesesisnecessarytoconfer
classlabels(avectorwheretheonlynon-nullelementisthe
modeling capacity sufficient to train robust models, which
correctclassindex)withsoftlabels(eachclassisassigneda
may indicate a fundamental disadvantage for the defender.
valuecloseto 1/N fora N-classproblem).Yet,thisvariant
Defendingagainstinferenceattacksremainslargelyanopen
was found to not defend against more precise but computa-
problem. We explain why mechanisms that smooth model
tionally expensive Jacobian-based iterative attack [21].
outputs in infinitesimal neighborhoods of the training data
These results suggest limitations of defense strategies
fail to guarantee integrity. Then, we present defenses effec-
that seek to conceal gradient-based information exploited
tive against larger perturbations.
by adversaries. In fact, defensive distillation can be evaded
Defending by gradient masking: Most integrity attacks in using a black-box attack [25]. We here detail the reason
Section 5 rely on the adversary being able to find small behind this evasion. When applying defense mechanisms
perturbations that lead to significant changes in the model’s that smooth a model’s output surface, as illustrated in Fig-
output.Thus,anaturaldefensestrategyistoreducethesen- ure 5.(a), the adversary cannot craft adversarial examples
sitivityofmodelstosmallchangesmadetotheirinputs.This because the gradients it needs to compute (e.g., the deriva-
sensitivity is estimated by computing first order derivatives tiveofthemodeloutputwithrespecttoitsinput)havevalues
409

closetozero.In[25],thisisreferredtoasgradientmasking. subjects involved in their training data. This is captured by
Theadversarymayinsteaduseasubstitutemodel,illustrated differential privacy [88], a rigorous framework to analyze
in Figure 5.(b), to craft adversarial examples, since the theprivacyguaranteesprovidedbyalgorithms.Informally,it
substitute is not impacted by the defensive mechanism and formulatesprivacyasthepropertythatanalgorithm’soutput
will still have the gradients necessary to find adversarial does not differ significantly statistically for two versions of
directions. Due to the adversarial example transferability thedatadifferingbyonlyonerecord.Inourcase,therecord
property [24] described in Section 5, the adversarial exam- is a training point and the algorithm the ML model.
ples crafted using the substitute are also misclassified by Arandomizedalgorithmissaidtobe(ε,δ)differentially
the defended model. This attack vector is likely to apply to private if for two neighboring training datasets T,T (cid:3), i.e.
any defense performing gradient masking, i.e. any mecha- which differ by at most one training point, the algorithm A
nismdefendingagainstadversarialexamplesininfinitesimal satisfies for any acceptable set S of algorithm outputs:
neighborhoods of the training points.
Pr[A(T)∈S]≤e ε Pr[A(T (cid:3) )∈S]+δ (2)
Ourtake-away 6.1. Anydefensethattamperswithad-
versarial example crafting heuristics (e.g., by masking Theparameters(ε,δ)defineanupperboundontheprobabil-
gradients used by adversaries) but does not mitigate itythattheoutputof Adiffersbetween T and T (cid:3).Parameter
the underlying erroneous model predictions can be εisaprivacybudget:smallerbudgetsyieldstrongerprivacy
evaded using a transferability-based black-box attack. guarantees. The second parameter δ is a failure rate for
which it is tolerated that the ε bound does not hold.
To provide any form of meaningful privacy, such as
Defending against larger perturbations:Szegedyetal.[24]
differential privacy, it is necessary to randomize part of the
first suggested injecting adversarial samples, correctly la-
ML system’s pipeline. This may be done either in the pre-
beled, in the training set as a means to make the model
processingstagesprecedingthemodel(thisfallsoutsidethe
robust. They showed that models fitted with this mixture
scopeofthispaper),whiletrainingthemodel,oratinference
of legitimate and adversarial samples were regularized and
by randomizing the predictions that the model outputs.
more robust to adversaries using their attack.
This strategy was later made practical by Goodfellow Training: At training, random noise may be injected to the
et al. [43]: the fast gradient sign method defines a dif- data, the cost minimized by the learning algorithm, or the
ferentiable and efficiently-computed adversarial objective values of parameters learned.
during training. The defender minimizes the error between
Aninstanceoftrainingdatarandomizationisformalized
the model’s predictions on adversarial examples (computed
by local privacy [89]. In the scenario where users send data
using the current parameter candidates throughout training)
to a centralized server that trainsa model with the data col-
and the original labels. For instance, the misclassification
lected,randomizedresponse protectsprivacy: usersrespond
rateofa MNISTmodelisreducedfrom 89.4%to 17.9%on
to server queries with the true answer at a probability q,
adversarial examples [43]. Huang et al. [65] developed the and otherwise return a random value with probability 1−q.
intuition behind adversarial training. They formulate a min-
Erlingsson et al. showed that this allowed the developers
max problem between the adversary applying perturbations
of a browser to collect meaningful and privacy-preserving
toeachtrainingpointtomaximizethemodel’sclassification
usage statistics from users [90].
error,andthelearningprocedureattemptingtominimizethis
Chaudhuri et al. show that objective perturbation, i.e.
error. The performance improvements over previous efforts
introducing random noise in the cost function (that mea-
are however often statistically non-significant.
sures the error between the model predictions and the ex-
Althoughadversarialtrainingdefendsagainstattackson
pected outputs) minimized during learning can provide ε-
whichthemodelistrained,itisweakinthefaceofadaptive
differential privacy [91]. This noise is drawn from an expo-
adversaries.Forinstance,Moosavietal.[44]useadifferent nential distribution and scaled using the model sensitivity 3
heuristic to find adversarial examples when training and
Bassilyetal.provideimprovedalgorithmsandprivacyanal-
attacking.Theirevaluationshowsthatthemodelisnolonger
ysis,alongwithreferencestomanyoftheworksintervening
robust in these settings.
in private learning through cost minimization [92]
Our take-away 6.2. Even with heuristics like adver-
Ourtake-away 6.3. Preciselyquantifyingthelearning
sarial training, it is impossible to fully cover the ML
algorithm’s sensitivity to training points is necessary
task’sdatadomain.Hence,futureproposalsfordefend-
to establish differential privacy guarantees. For non-
ing against adversarial examples will almost certainly
convexmodels(e.g.,neuralnets),currentloosebounds
need to improve the ability of models to be uncertain
on sensitivity require that learning be heavily random-
when predicting far from their training subspace [87].
ized to protect data—often at the expense of utility.
6.2. Learning and Inferring with Privacy
3.In differential privacy research, sensitivity denotes the maximum
changeinthemodeloutputwhenoneofitstrainingpointsischanged.This
One way of defining privacy-preserving models is that
isnotidenticaltothesensitivityof MLmodelstoadversarialperturbations
they do not reveal any additional information about the (see Section 5).
410

Shokrietal.showedthatlarge-capacitymodelslikedeep producingamodelthatdiscriminatesagainstcertaingroups.
neuralnetworkstrainedwithmulti-partycomputationsfrom Historical data also inherently reflects social biases [103].
noisy parameter values provide differential privacy guaran- Another source of bias is the learning algorithm itself,
tees [93]. In centralized settings (a single entity trains the which can be adapted to provide guarantees for subpopu-
model), an approach introduced by Abadi et al. guarantees lations of the training data [104]. These guarantees express
stronger differential privacy bounds. It randomly perturbs a particular definition of fairness: e.g., equal or unbiased
gradients computed by the learning algorithm before they treatment[105].Theyhoweverintroducetrade-offsbetween
areappliedtoupdateparametervalues[94].Underdifferent the performance of a model and its fairness [101], [106].
assumptions,namelytheavailabilityofpublicandunlabeled To learn fair models, Zemel et al. learn an intermediate
datawhoseprivacydoesnotneedtobeprotected,itispossi- representation that encodes a sanitized variant of the data,
ble to further improve the strength of the privacy protection as first discussed in [107]. Edwards et al. showed that
onsensitive(labeled)data[95],[96].Tobegin,anensemble fairness could be achieved by learning in competition with
of teacher models is learned on (disjoint) partitions of the an adversary trying to predict the sensitive variable from
trainingdata.Theseteachersmakepredictionsonthepublic the fair model’s prediction [108]. They find connections
unlabeled data, and their outputs are aggregated in a noisy between fairness and privacy, as their approach also applies
fashiontoproduceasinglelabelpredictionwithdifferential to the task of removing sensitive annotations from images.
privacy guarantee. This newly labeled dataset serves as a We expect future work at the intersection of fairness and
training set for a student model. Given that this model was topics discussed in this paper to be fruitful. For instance,
trained on private labels, it may be deployed publicly. connections between fairness and security have recently
been drawn; techniques like adversarial example algorithms
Inference: To provide differential privacy, the ML’s behav-
were applied to estimate how representative of a class a
ior may also be randomized at inference by introducing
particular input is, which led to the identification of racial
noise to predictions. Yet, this degrades the accuracy of
biases in popular image datasets [109].
predictions, since the amount of noise introduced increases
with the number of inference queries answered by the ML Accountability: Accountability explains ML predictions
model. Note that different forms of privacy, that often fall withthemodelinternalshθ.Fewmodelsareinterpretableby
under the realm of test data confidentiality, can be provided design,i.e.,matchhumanreasoning[110],[111].Dattaetal.
during inference. For instance, Dowlin et al. use homomor- introducedquantitativeinputinfluencemeasurestoestimate
phic encryption [97] to encrypt the data in a form that the influence of specific inputs on the model output [112].
allows a neural network to process it without decrypting Later,influencefunctionswereexploitedtomountpoisoning
it [98]. Although, this does not provide differential privacy, attacksagainstdeeplearningbyintroducingambiguityinthe
it protects the confidentiality of each individual input when model’strainingdata[113].Anotheravenueforaccountabil-
the model owner is not trusted by a model user. The main ityistocomputeinputsthatthe MLmodelismostsensitive
limitations are the performance overhead and the restricted to. Activation maximization synthesizes inputs that highly
set of arithmetic operations supported by homomorphic activate specific neurons of a neural network [114]. The
encryption, which introduce additional constraints in the challenge lies in producing human-interpretable synthetic
architecture design of the ML model. inputs that faithfully represent the model’s behavior [115].
Activation maximization is also relevant to model failures
6.3. Fairness and Accountability in ML like adversarial examples. In fact, salient inputs that maxi-
mallyactivateparticularmodelsareproducedwithheuristics
The opaque nature of ML generates concerns regarding similar to those commonly used to identify input directions
a lack of fairness and accountability of model predictions. that yield adversarial examples misclassified by a model.
This is key in applications like banking or healthcare [99]. On the one hand, techniques used for accountability and
In addition, legal frameworks like the European Data Pro- transparency are likely to yield improved attack techniques
tection Regulationrequirethatcompaniesprovideanexpla- because they increase the adversary’s understanding of how
nation for algorithm predictions if they were made using themodel’sdecisionsaremade.Ontheotherhand,theyalso
data considered sensitive or private [100]. In the interest of contributetobuildingabetterunderstandingoftheimpactof
space, we do not provide a comprehensive survey of rapid training data on the model learned by ML algorithm, which
technicalprogressmadetowardsfairnessandaccountability, is beneficial to privacy-preserving ML.
which would necessitate a dedicated So K. We focus here
onworkrelevanttopreviouslydiscussednotionsofsecurity 7. Conclusions
(e.g.,datapoisoning)andprivacy(e.g.,differentialprivacy).
Fairness: In the ML pipeline from Figure 2, fairness is Thesecurityandprivacyofmachinelearningisanactive
relevanttotheactiontakeninthephysicaldomainbasedon yet nascent area. We explored the attack surface of systems
the model prediction. It should not nurture discrimination built upon ML. That analysis yields a natural structure for
againstspecificindividuals[101],[102].Trainingdataisone reasoningabouttheirthreatmodels.Inthelarge,avastbody
sourceofbiasin ML.Forinstance,adishonestdatacollector ofworkfromdiversescientificcommunitiespaintsapicture
might adversarially attempt to manipulate the learning into that many vulnerabilities of ML and the countermeasures
411

used to defend against them are as yet unknown—yet a [11] D. Erhan, Y. Bengio, A. Courville, P.-A. Manzagol, P. Vincent,
and S. Bengio, “Why does unsupervised pre-training help deep
science for understanding them is slowly emerging.
learning?”Journalof Machine Learning Research,vol.11,pp.625–
Take-aways from this systematization of knowledge 660,2010.
point towards varying—but related—notions of sensitivity. [12] V. Chandola, A. Banerjee, and V. Kumar, “Anomaly detection: A
Characterizingthesensitivityoflearningalgorithmstotheir survey,” ACM Computing Surveys, vol. 41, no. 3, pp. 15:1–15:58,
2009.
training data is essential to privacy-preserving ML. Simi-
larly, controlling the sensitivity of deployed models to data [13] J.Huand M.P.Wellman,“Nash Q-learningforgeneral-sumstochas-
ticgames,”Journalof Machine Learning Research,vol.4,pp.1039–
theyperforminferenceonisrequiredforsecure ML.Central 1069,2003.
to these two notions, the sensitivity of generalization error
[14] R. S. Sutton and A. G. Barto, Reinforcement Learning: An Intro-
(i.e., the gap between performance on training and test duction. MITPress,1998.
data)remainspoorlyunderstoodformanymodels(including [15] D. Silver, A. Huang, C. J. Maddison, A. Guez, L. Sifre et al.,
neural nets) and calls for further research. “Mastering the game of Go with deep neural networks and tree
search,”Nature,vol.529,no.7587,pp.484–489,2016.
[16] C.M.Bishop,“Patternrecognition,”Machine Learning,2006.
Acknowledgments
[17] I.Goodfellow,Y.Bengio,and A.Courville,“Deeplearning,”2016,
Bookinpreparationfor MITPress(www.deeplearningbook.org).
We thank Mart´ın Abadi, Z. Berkay Celik, Ian Good- [18] N. S. Altman, “An introduction to kernel and nearest-neighbor
fellow, Damien Octeau, and Kunal Talwar for feedback nonparametricregression,”The American Statistician,vol.46,no.3,
pp.175–185,1992.
on early versions of this document. We also thank Megan
Mc Daniel for taking good care of our diet before the [19] M.Barreno,B.Nelson,R.Sears,A.D.Joseph,and J.D.Tygar,“Can
machine learning be secure?” in ACM Symposium on Information,
deadline. We would also like to thank Seda Guerses for Computerand Communications Security,2006,pp.16–25.
shepherding our paper. Nicolas Papernot is supported by a
[20] L.Huang,A.D.Joseph,B.Nelson,B.I.Rubinstein,and J.Tygar,
Google Ph DFellowshipin Security.Researchwassupported “Adversarialmachinelearning,”in 4 th ACMWorkshopon Security
in part by the Army Research Laboratory, under Coopera- and Artificial Intelligence,2011,pp.43–58.
tive Agreement Number W 911 NF-13-2-0045 (ARL Cyber [21] N.Papernot,P.Mc Daniel,S.Jha,M.Fredrikson,Z.B.Celik,and
A.Swami,“Thelimitationsofdeeplearninginadversarialsettings,”
Security CRA), and the Army Research Office under grant in 1 st IEEEEuropean Symposiumon Securityand Privacy,2016.
W 911 NF-13-1-0421. The views and conclusions contained
[22] M.Kloftand P.Laskov,“Onlineanomalydetectionunderadversarial
in this document are those of the authors and should not impact,”in 13 th International Conferenceon Artificial Intelligence
be interpreted as representing the official policies, either and Statistics,2010,pp.405–412.
expressed or implied, of the Army Research Laboratory or [23] M. Sharif, S. Bhagavatula, L. Bauer, and M. K. Reiter, “Acces-
sorizetoacrime:Realandstealthyattacksonstate-of-the-artface
the U.S. Government. The U.S. Government is authorized
recognition,” in 23 rd ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and
toreproduceanddistributereprintsforgovernmentpurposes Communications Security,2016,pp.1528–1540.
notwithstanding any copyright notation hereon. [24] C.Szegedy,W.Zaremba,I.Sutskever,J.Bruna,D.Erhan,I.Good-
fellow,and R.Fergus,“Intriguingpropertiesofneuralnetworks,”in
References International Conferenceon Learning Representations,2014.
[25] N. Papernot, P. Mc Daniel, I. Goodfellow, S. Jha, Z. B. Celik, and
[1] W. House, “Preparing for the future of artificial intelligence,” Ex- A. Swami, “Practical black-box attacks against deep learning sys-
ecutive Office of the President, National Science and Technology temsusingadversarialexamples,”ar Xivpreprintar Xiv:1602.02697,
Council,Committeeon Technology,2016. 2016.
[26] N. Sˇrndic´ and P. Laskov, “Practical evasion of a learning-based
[2] C. P. Pfleeger and S. L. Pfleeger, Analyzing Computer Security:
classifier: A case study,” in IEEE Symposium on Security and
A Threat/Vulnerability/Countermeasure Approach. Prentice Hall,
Privacy,2014,pp.197–211.
2012.
[27] R.J.Boltonand D.J.Hand,“Statisticalfrauddetection:Areview,”
[3] D. Amodei, C. Olah, J. Steinhardt, P. Christiano, J. Schulman,
Statistical Science,vol.17,pp.235–249,2002.
and D. Mane´, “Concrete problems in AI safety,” ar Xiv preprint
ar Xiv:1606.06565,2016. [28] T.C.Rindfleisch,“Privacy,informationtechnology,andhealthcare,”
Communicationsofthe ACM,vol.40,no.8,pp.92–100,1997.
[4] O. Ohrimenko, F. Schuster, C. Fournet, A. Mehta, S. Nowozin,
K.Vaswani,and M.Costa,“Obliviousmulti-partymachinelearning [29] M.Fredrikson,S.Jha,and T.Ristenpart,“Modelinversionattacks
ontrustedprocessors,”in 25 th USENIXSecurity Symposium,2016. thatexploitconfidenceinformationandbasiccountermeasures,”in
22 nd ACMSIGSACConferenceon Computerand Communications
[5] K.P.Murphy,Machine Learning:AProbabilistic Perspective. MIT
Security,2015,pp.1322–1333.
Press,2012.
[30] R. Shokri, M. Stronati, and V. Shmatikov, “Membership infer-
[6] A. Krizhevsky, I. Sutskever, and G. E. Hinton, “Imagenet classi-
ence attacks against machine learning models,” ar Xiv preprint
fication with deep convolutional neural networks,” in Advances in
ar Xiv:1610.05820,2016.
Neural Information Processing Systems,2012,pp.1097–1105.
[31] D. M. Powers, “Evaluation: From precision, recall and F-measure
[7] I. Sutskever, O. Vinyals, and Q. V. Le, “Sequence to sequence
to ROC, informedness, markedness and correlation,” Journal of
learningwithneuralnetworks,”in Advancesin Neural Information
Machine Learning Technologies,vol.2,pp.37–63,2011.
Processing Systems,2014,pp.3104–3112.
[32] M.Kearnsand M.Li,“Learninginthepresenceofmaliciouserrors,”
[8] H. Drucker, D. Wu, and V. N. Vapnik, “Support vector machines
SIAMJournalon Computing,vol.22,no.4,pp.807–837,1993.
for spam categorization,” IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks,
vol.10,no.5,pp.1048–1054,1999. [33] A. Globerson and S. Roweis, “Nightmare at test time: Robust
learning by feature deletion,” in 23 rd International Conference on
[9] A.K.Jain,M.N.Murty,and P.J.Flynn,“Dataclustering:Areview,”
Machine Learning,2006,pp.353–360.
ACMComputing Surveys,vol.31,no.3,pp.264–323,1999.
[34] N. Manwani and P. S. Sastry, “Noise tolerance under risk mini-
[10] A.Krizhevskyand G.Hinton,“Learningmultiplelayersoffeatures
mization,” IEEE Transactions on Cybernetics, vol. 43, no. 3, pp.
fromtinyimages,”2009.
1146–1151,2013.
412

[35] B.Nelsonand A.D.Joseph,“Boundinganattack’scomplexityfor [57] S. Mei and X. Zhu, “Using machine teaching to identify optimal
asimplelearningmodel,”in First Workshopon Tackling Computer training-setattacksonmachinelearners,”in AAAI,2015,pp.2871–
Systems Problemswith Machine Learning Techniques,2006. 2877.
[36] G. Hulten, L. Spencer, and P. Domingos, “Mining time-changing [58] H.Xiao,B.Biggio,G.Brown,G.Fumera,C.Eckert,and F.Roli,
data streams,” in 7 th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on “Isfeatureselectionsecureagainsttrainingdatapoisoning?”in Pro-
Knowledge Discoveryand Data Mining,2001,pp.97–106. ceedingsofthe 32 nd International Conferenceon Machine Learning
(ICML-15),2015,pp.1689–1698.
[37] B.Biggio,B.Nelson,and P.Laskov,“Supportvectormachinesunder
adversariallabelnoise,”in Asian Conferenceon Machine Learning, [59] V. Behzadan and A. Munir, “Vulnerability of deep reinforce-
2011,pp.97–112. ment learning to policy induction attacks,” ar Xiv preprint
ar Xiv:1701.04143,2017.
[38] M. Mozaffari-Kermani, S. Sur-Kolay, A. Raghunathan, and N. K.
Jha, “Systematic poisoning attacks on and defenses for machine [60] J. Newsome, B. Karp, and D. Song, “Polygraph: Automatically
learning in healthcare,” IEEE Journal of Biomedical and Health generating signatures for polymorphic worms,” in Security and
Informatics,vol.19,no.6,pp.1893–1905,2015. Privacy,2005 IEEESymposiumon. IEEE,2005,pp.226–241.
[39] H.Xiao,H.Xiao,and C.Eckert,“Adversariallabelflipsattackon [61] R.Perdisci,D.Dagon,W.Lee,P.Fogla,and M.Sharif,“Mislead-
supportvectormachines,”in 20 th European Conferenceon Artificial ingwormsignaturegeneratorsusingdeliberatenoiseinjection,”in
Intelligence,2012,pp.870–875. Securityand Privacy,2006 IEEESymposiumon. IEEE,2006,pp.
15–pp.
[40] V.N.Vapnik,Statistical Learning Theory. Wiley,1998.
[62] G. Hinton, O. Vinyals, and J. Dean, “Distilling the knowledge in
[41] B. Biggio, K. Rieck, D. Ariu, C. Wressnegger, I. Corona, G. Gi- a neural network,” in NIPS-14 Workshop on Deep Learning and
acinto, and F. Roli, “Poisoning behavioral malware clustering,” in Representation Learning. ar Xiv:1503.02531,2014.
Workshopon Artificial Intelligenceand Security,2014,pp.27–36.
[63] D.C.Liuand J.Nocedal,“Onthelimitedmemorybfgsmethodfor
[42] B.Biggio,I.Corona,D.Maiorca,B.Nelson,N.Sˇrndic´,P.Laskov, large scale optimization,” Mathematical programming, vol. 45, no.
G.Giacinto,and F.Roli,“Evasionattacksagainstmachinelearning 1-3,pp.503–528,1989.
at test time,” in Machine Learning and Knowledge Discovery in
[64] Y.Le Cunand C.Cortes,“Themnistdatabaseofhandwrittendigits,”
Databases. Springer,2013,pp.387–402.
1998.
[43] I. J. Goodfellow, J. Shlens, and C. Szegedy, “Explaining and har-
[65] R. Huang, B. Xu, D. Schuurmans, and C. Szepesvari, “Learning
nessing adversarial examples,” in 3 d International Conference on
withastrongadversary,”ar Xivpreprintar Xiv:1511.03034,2015.
Learning Representations,2015.
[66] D. Warde-Farley and I. Goodfellow, “Adversarial perturbations of
[44] S.-M. Moosavi-Dezfooli, A. Fawzi, and P. Frossard, “Deepfool: A deep neural networks,” Advanced Structured Prediction, T. Hazan,
simpleandaccuratemethodtofooldeepneuralnetworks,”in IEEE G.Papandreou,and D.Tarlow,Eds,2016.
Conferenceon Computer Visionand Pattern Recognition,2016,pp.
2574–2582. [67] F.Trame`r,N.Papernot,I.Goodfellow,D.Boneh,and P.Mc Daniel,
“The space of transferable adversarial examples,” ar Xiv preprint
[45] S.Alfeld,X.Zhu,and P.Barford,“Datapoisoningattacksagainst ar Xiv:1704.03453,2017.
autoregressive models,” in 30 th AAAI Conference on Artificial In-
telligence,2016,pp.1452–1458. [68] S. Huang, N. Papernot, I. Goodfellow, Y. Duan, and P. Abbeel,
“Adversarial attacks on neural network policies,” ar Xiv preprint
[46] N. Carlini and D. Wagner, “Towards evaluating the robustness of ar Xiv:1702.02284,2017.
neural networks,” in IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy,
2017,pp.39–57. [69] G.L.Witteland S.F.Wu,“Onattackingstatisticalspamfilters.”in
CEAS,2004.
[47] J. Hayes, L. Melis, G. Danezis, and E. De Cristofaro, “Logan:
[70] D. Lowd and C. Meek, “Good word attacks on statistical spam
Evaluating privacy leakage of generative models using generative
filters.”in CEAS,2005.
adversarialnetworks,”ar Xivpreprintar Xiv:1705.07663,2017.
[71] Y.Vorobeychikand B.Li,“Optimalrandomizedclassificationinad-
[48] G. Ateniese, L. V. Mancini, A. Spognardi, A. Villani, D. Vitali,
versarialsettings,”in 13 th International Conferenceon Autonomous
and G.Felici,“Hackingsmartmachineswithsmarterones:Howto
Agentsand Multi-Agent Systems,2014,pp.485–492.
extractmeaningfuldatafrommachinelearningclassifiers,”Interna-
tional Journalof Securityand Networks,vol.10,no.3,pp.137–150, [72] D. Lowd and C. Meek, “Adversarial learning,” in Proceedings of
2015. theeleventh ACMSIGKDDinternationalconferenceon Knowledge
discoveryindatamining. ACM,2005,pp.641–647.
[49] K.Grosse,N.Papernot,P.Manoharan,M.Backes,and P.Mc Daniel,
“Adversarialperturbationsagainstdeepneuralnetworksformalware [73] B. Nelson, B. I. Rubinstein, L. Huang, A. D. Joseph, S. J. Lee,
classification,”in 22 nd European Symposiumon Researchin Com- S.Rao,and J.Tygar,“Querystrategiesforevadingconvex-inducing
puter Security,2017. classifiers,” Journal of Machine Learning Research, vol. 13, pp.
1293–1332,2012.
[50] A.Kurakin,I.Goodfellow,and S.Bengio,“Adversarialexamplesin
thephysicalworld,”ar Xivpreprintar Xiv:1607.02533,2016. [74] I.Goodfellow,J.Pouget-Abadie,M.Mirza,B.Xu,D.Warde-Farley,
S.Ozair,A.Courville,and Y.Bengio,“Generativeadversarialnets,”
[51] W.Xu,Y.Qi,and D.Evans,“Automaticallyevadingclassifiers:A in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2014, pp.
casestudyon PDFmalwareclassifiers,”in Networkand Distributed 2672–2680.
Systems Symposium,2016.
[75] F. Mc Sherry, “Statistical inference considered harmful,” 2016.
[52] M.Fredrikson,E.Lantz,S.Jha,S.Lin,D.Page,and T.Ristenpart, [Online]. Available: https://github.com/frankmcsherry/blog/blob/
“Privacyinpharmacogenetics:Anend-to-endcasestudyofperson- master/posts/2016-06-14.md
alizedwarfarindosing,”in 23 rd USENIXSecurity Symposium,2014,
pp.17–32. [76] M. D. Zeiler and R. Fergus, “Visualizing and understanding con-
volutional networks,” in Computer vision–ECCV 2014. Springer,
[53] F. Trame`r, F. Zhang, A. Juels, M. K. Reiter, and T. Ristenpart, 2014,pp.818–833.
“Stealing machine learning models via prediction APIs,” in 25 th
USENIXSecurity Symposium,2016,pp.601–618. [77] B.I.P.Rubinstein,B.Nelson,L.Huang,A.D.Joseph,S.-h.Lau,
S. Rao, N. Taft, and J. D. Tygar, “Antidote: Understanding and
[54] N. Papernot, P. Mc Daniel, and I. Goodfellow, “Transferability in defending against poisoning of anomaly detectors,” in 9 th ACM
machine learning: From phenomena to black-box attacks using SIGCOMMConferenceon Internetmeasurement,2009,pp.1–14.
adversarialsamples,”ar Xivpreprintar Xiv:1605.07277,2016.
[78] G. Stempfel and L. Ralaivola, “Learning SVMs from sloppily la-
[55] Y. Liu, X. Chen, C. Liu, and D. Song, “Delving into transfer- beled data,” in International Conference on Artificial Neural Net-
able adversarial examples and black-box attacks,” ar Xiv preprint works. Springer,2009,pp.884–893.
ar Xiv:1611.02770,2016.
[79] L. Xu, K. Crammer, and D. Schuurmans, “Robust support vector
[56] B.Biggio,B.Nelson,and L.Pavel,“Poisoningattacksagainstsup- machinetrainingviaconvexoutlierablation,”in Twenty-First AAAI
portvectormachines,”in 29 th International Conferenceon Machine National Conferenceon Artificial Intelligence,vol.6,2006,pp.536–
Learning,2012. 542.
413

[80] A. Kerckhoffs, “La cryptographie militaire,” Journal des sciences [104] M.B.Zafar,I.Valera,M.Gomez Rodriguez,and K.P.Gummadi,
militaires,pp.5–83,1883. “Fairness constraints: Mechanisms for fair classification,” ar Xiv
preprintar Xiv:1507.05259,2017.
[81] J.Steinhardt,P.W.Koh,and P.Liang,“Certifieddefensesfordata
poisoningattacks,”ar Xivpreprintar Xiv:1706.03691,2017. [105] M.Kearns,“Fairalgorithmsformachinelearning,”in Proceedingsof
the 2017 ACMConferenceon Economicsand Computation. ACM,
[82] S.Guand L.Rigazio,“Towardsdeepneuralnetworkarchitectures
2017,pp.1–1.
robust to adversarial examples,” in Proceedings of the 2015 Inter-
national Conferenceon Learning Representations. Computational [106] S.Corbett-Davies,E.Pierson,A.Feller,S.Goel,and A.Huq,“Al-
and Biological Learning Society,2015. gorithmicdecisionmakingandthecostoffairness,”in Proceedings
[83] N. Papernot, P. Mc Daniel, X. Wu, S. Jha, and A. Swami, “Distil- ofthe 23 rd ACMSIGKDDInternational Conferenceon Knowledge
lationasadefensetoadversarialperturbationsagainstdeepneural Discoveryand Data Mining. ACM,2017,pp.797–806.
networks,”in Proceedingsofthe 37 th IEEESymposiumon Security [107] C.Dwork,M.Hardt,T.Pitassi,O.Reingold,and R.Zemel,“Fair-
and Privacy. IEEE,2016. ness through awareness,” in Proceedings of the 3 rd Innovations in
[84] N. Papernot and P. Mc Daniel, “On the effectiveness of defensive Theoretical Computer Science Conference. ACM,2012,pp.214–
distillation,”ar Xivpreprintar Xiv:1607.05113,2016. 226.
[85] C. Szegedy, V. Vanhoucke, S. Ioffe, J. Shlens, and Z. Wojna, [108] H. Edwards and A. Storkey, “Censoring representations with an
“Rethinking the inception architecture for computer vision,” ar Xiv adversary,”ar Xivpreprintar Xiv:1511.05897,2015.
preprintar Xiv:1512.00567,2015. [109] P. Stock and M. Cisse, “Convnets and imagenet beyond accuracy:
[86] D. Warde-Farley and I. Goodfellow, “Adversarial perturbations of Explanations,biasdetection,adversarialexamplesandmodelcriti-
deepneuralnetworks,”in Advanced Structured Prediction,T.Hazan, cism,”ar Xivpreprintar Xiv:1711.11443,2017.
G.Papandreou,and D.Tarlow,Eds.,2016. [110] B. Letham, C. Rudin, T. H. Mc Cormick, D. Madigan et al., “In-
[87] Y. Li and Y. Gal, “Dropout inference in bayesian neural networks terpretableclassifiersusingrulesandbayesiananalysis:Buildinga
withalpha-divergences,”ar Xivpreprintar Xiv:1703.02914,2017. better stroke prediction model,” The Annals of Applied Statistics,
vol.9,no.3,pp.1350–1371,2015.
[88] C. Dwork, A. Roth et al., “The algorithmic foundations of differ-
ential privacy,” Foundations and Trends in Theoretical Computer [111] M. T. Ribeiro, S. Singh, and C. Guestrin, “Why should i trust
Science,vol.9,no.3-4,pp.211–407,2014. you?: Explaining the predictions of any classifier,” in Proceedings
ofthe 22 nd ACMSIGKDDInternational Conferenceon Knowledge
[89] S. P. Kasiviswanathan, H. K. Lee, K. Nissim, S. Raskhodnikova,
Discoveryand Data Mining. ACM,2016,pp.1135–1144.
and A. Smith, “What can we learn privately?” SIAM Journal on
Computing,vol.40,no.3,pp.793–826,2011. [112] A.Datta,S.Sen,and Y.Zick,“Algorithmictransparencyviaquanti-
tativeinputinfluence,”in Proceedingsof 37 th IEEESymposiumon
[90] U´. Erlingsson, V. Pihur, and A. Korolova, “Rappor: Randomized
Securityand Privacy,2016.
aggregatable privacy-preserving ordinal response,” in 21 st ACM
SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security, [113] P.W.Kohand P.Liang,“Understandingblack-boxpredictionsvia
2014,pp.1054–1067. influencefunctions,”ar Xivpreprintar Xiv:1703.04730,2017.
[91] K. Chaudhuri, C. Monteleoni, and A. D. Sarwate, “Differentially [114] D. Erhan, Y. Bengio, A. Courville, and P. Vincent, “Visualizing
privateempiricalriskminimization,”Journalof Machine Learning higher-layer features of a deep network,” University of Montreal,
Research,vol.12,no.Mar,pp.1069–1109,2011. vol.1341,2009.
[92] R.Bassily,A.Smith,and A.Thakurta,“Differentiallyprivateempir- [115] A. Mahendran and A. Vedaldi, “Visualizing deep convolutional
icalriskminimization:Efficientalgorithmsandtighterrorbounds,” neuralnetworksusingnaturalpre-images,”International Journalof
ar Xivpreprintar Xiv:1405.7085,2014. Computer Vision,pp.1–23,2016.
[93] R.Shokriand V.Shmatikov,“Privacy-preservingdeeplearning,”in
22 nd ACMSIGSACConferenceon Computerand Communications
Security,2015,pp.1310–1321.
[94] M. Abadi, A. Chu, I. Goodfellow, H. B. Mc Mahan, I. Mironov,
K.Talwar,and L.Zhang,“Deeplearningwithdifferentialprivacy,”
in 23 rd ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communica-
tions Security,2016,pp.308–318.
[95] J. Hamm, P. Cao, and M. Belkin, “Learning privately from multi-
partydata,”ar Xivpreprintar Xiv:1602.03552,2016.
[96] N.Papernot,M.Abadi,U´.Erlingsson,I.Goodfellow,and K.Talwar,
“Semi-supervisedknowledgetransferfordeeplearningfromprivate
trainingdata,”ar Xivpreprintar Xiv:1610.05755,2016.
[97] R. L. Rivest, L. Adleman, and M. L. Dertouzos, “On data banks
and privacy homomorphisms,” Foundations of secure computation,
vol.4,no.11,pp.169–180,1978.
[98] R.Gilad-Bachrach,N.Dowlin,K.Laine,K.Lauter,M.Naehrig,and
J. Wernsing, “Cryptonets: Applying neural networks to encrypted
datawithhighthroughputandaccuracy,”in Proceedingsof The 33 rd
International Conferenceon Machine Learning,2016,pp.201–210.
[99] I. W. P. Consortium et al., “Estimation of the warfarin dose with
clinical and pharmacogenetic data,” N Engl J Med, vol. 2009, no.
360,pp.753–764,2009.
[100] B. Goodman and S. Flaxman, “European union regulations on
algorithmic decision-making and a” right to explanation”,” ar Xiv
preprintar Xiv:1606.08813,2016.
[101] J. Kleinberg, S. Mullainathan, and M. Raghavan, “Inherent trade-
offs in the fair determination of risk scores,” ar Xiv preprint
ar Xiv:1609.05807,2016.
[102] M.J.Kusner,J.R.Loftus,C.Russell,and R.Silva,“Counterfactual
fairness,”ar Xivpreprintar Xiv:1703.06856,2017.
[103] S.Barocasand A.D.Selbst,“Bigdata’sdisparateimpact,”Califor-
nia Law Review,vol.104,2016.
414