917434
research-article 2020 CMC 0010.1177/1741659020917434 Crime, Media, Culture Hayward and Maas
Article
Crime Media Culture
Artificial intelligence and crime: A 1 –25
© The Author(s) 2020
primer for criminologists Article reuse guidelines:
sagepub.com/journals-permissions
http Ds:/O/d I:o i 1.o 0 rg.1/1107.171/1777/411746156950920020991177443344
journals.sagepub.com/home/cmc
Keith J Hayward and Matthijs M Maas
University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Abstract
This article introduces the concept of Artificial Intelligence (AI) to a criminological audience. After
a general review of the phenomenon (including brief explanations of important cognate fields
such as ‘machine learning’, ‘deep learning’, and ‘reinforcement learning’), the paper then turns
to the potential application of AI by criminals, including what we term here ‘crimes with AI’,
‘crimes against AI’, and ‘crimes by AI’. In these sections, our aim is to highlight AI’s potential as
a criminogenic phenomenon, both in terms of scaling up existing crimes and facilitating new
digital transgressions. In the third part of the article, we turn our attention to the main ways
the AI paradigm is transforming policing, surveillance, and criminal justice practices via diffuse
monitoring modalities based on prediction and prevention. Throughout the paper, we deploy an
array of programmatic examples which, collectively, we hope will serve as a useful AI primer for
criminologists interested in the ‘tech-crime nexus’.
Keywords
Artificial Intelligence, Big Data criminology, cybercrime, digital criminology, inescapable
surveillance, machine learning, technology and crime
Introduction
Standing behind a desk on the type of gargantuan conference stage favoured by chino-wearing
Microsoft executives and headset-sporting tech futurologists, computer scientist Zeyu Jin addresses
delegates at a 2016 Adobe MAX event in San Diego. Jin is a designer behind ‘Project Voco’, a
prototype audio editing-and-generating software that enables users to manufacture digital sound.
Dubbed ‘Photoshop-for-voice’, Voco is at the vanguard of a suite of technologies that essentially
allows anyone with a laptop to forge or manipulate voice-recordings. A hushed atmosphere
descends as the software is cued up on a billboard-size video screen. The silence doesn’t last long.
Corresponding author:
Keith J Hayward, Faculty of Law, University of Copenhagen, Njalsgade, 76, 2300 Copenhagen S, Denmark.
Email: keith.hayward@jur.ku.dk

2 CRIME MEDIA CULTURE 00(0)
After Jin demonstrates the ease by which he can fabricate the voice of the American comedian
Keegan Michael-Key, the audience of bloggers and start-up entrepreneurs erupts with all the
fervour of a Southern Baptist revival. Jin, thrilled with the response, holds his arms aloft in recogni-
tion of the applause. However, even before the cheering subsides, a cautionary note is sounded
by Key’s comedy partner, Jordan Peele, who jokes: ‘You could get in big trouble for something like
this’. Jin is unfazed. ‘Don’t worry’, he later responds ‘We have actually researched how to prevent
a forgery . . . it’s really not for bad stuff’.1
It’s really not for bad stuff. Jin’s sanguine position is unsurprising. For decades, computer scien-
tists have been so captivated by the unlimited potential of new technologies that the negative
effects of these systems have been downplayed or often ignored entirely.2 Known as techno-opti-
mism, this failure to effectively balance reward and risk was famously reflected in ‘Don’t be evil’, the
former motto of Google’s corporate code of conduct. However, just as Google quietly dropped the
phrase in the wake of concerns about the company’s involvement in censorship, tax avoidance, and
privacy-violation scandals, tech developers are now realizing that Artificial Intelligence (AI) systems
will not only enable unpalatable policing practices, but will also provide a host of new avenues for
serious criminal exploitation.3
Yet if many computer scientists are understandably guilty of concentrating their efforts on
the technology side of what we might call here the ‘tech-crime nexus’, then the same is true in
reverse of criminologists. While our discipline continues to advance knowledge about crime and
punishment, it does so largely oblivious of the many social challenges posed by technological
disruption (Brown, 2006; Hayward, 2012; Holt and Bossler, 2014).4 Not only do most criminolo-
gists ignore matters relating to technology itself, but with few exceptions they have shown a
studied disregard of theories from other disciplines that have sought to open a space for dia-
logue between the social sciences and information and communications technology. As a result,
while recent years have seen scholars begin to survey and warn of the potential ‘malicious uses’
of AI (Brundage et al., 2018), and its offensive and defensive applications (Broadhurst et al.,
2018), mainstream criminologists have yet to play any significant role in what King et al. (2019)
have usefully described as the emerging interdisciplinary field of ‘AI-Crime’ (AIC).5
Thankfully, this situation is changing. Recently, criminology has been enlivened by a series of new
research clusters concerned with how crime will be transformed by the impact of what Greenfield
(2017) calls the ‘radical new technologies of the networked era’. Here, we refer to new subfields
such as digital criminology (Powell et al., 2018); computational (Williams and Burnap, 2016) and Big
Data-era criminology (Chan and Bennett Moses, 2017; Smith et al., 2017); and a growing body of
research into ‘technocrimes’ (Steinmetz and Nobles, 2017) involving encryption, cryptocurrencies,
illicit trade and ‘dropgangs’ on the dark web, and ‘stalkerware’ (e.g. Aldridge, 2019; Kruithof et al.,
2016; Munksgaard et al., 2016; Paoli et al., 2017; Parsons et al., 2019). The recent publication of
Mc Guire and Holt’s (2017) impressive and much-needed Routledge Handbook of Technology,
Crime and Justice further evidences criminology’s burgeoning interest in matters technological.6 It is
our hope, this article will lend further weight to this body of work by training attention on crimino-
logical issues related to one particular facet of contemporary technology: AI.
To lay observers, AI can be a difficult concept to grasp – a phenomenon that is seemingly every-
where, yet at the same time strangely opaque. In popular culture and news reporting, AI is often the
stuff of fanciful narratives about ‘killer robots’ or dystopian surveillance systems. However, in terms
of people’s everyday lives, AI tends to function at a much more prosaic level, driving everything from

Hayward and Maas 3
Smart TVs to language translation applications. It is perhaps this universality that confuses people,
not least because each putative AI future evokes its own particular array of concerns about safety,
ethics, legality and liability. If society is to overcome this confusion, what is required are clear answers
to straightforward questions such as ‘What exactly is AI?’ ‘What are its capabilities and limits?’ And,
most importantly for criminologists, ‘What are the consequences of its proliferation and use in soci-
ety, both as a tool for criminal or illegitimate ends, and as a means of security and social control?’
In a bid to answer such questions the paper will proceed in three parts. We start with a short,
accessible, introduction to AI. As we are not writing for computer scientists, we will avoid diving
into technical details and computational matters, and instead offer a more general overview
aimed specifically at criminologists and other interested social scientists. In part 2, we turn to the
potential application of AI by criminals, including ‘crimes with AI’, ‘crimes against AI’, and ‘crimes
by AI’. Part 3 addresses the use of AI applications by police forces, criminal justice agencies and
governments and how the scaling up of granular, ubiquitous and predictive surveillance will rede-
fine the culture and texture of future urban landscapes. Importantly, these three areas do not
exhaust the space for future criminological enquiry in relation to AI. For instance, one additional
salient area concerns potential methodological innovations in the use of AI systems to assist in the
study of criminological phenomena. This will no doubt offer tremendous opportunity to crimi-
nologists, but will also require their careful critical scrutiny. However, because the goal of this
paper is to lay the groundwork for criminology’s future direct engagement with AI, our concern
here does not extend to future digital methods.
Throughout, our critical position is one best described as dichotomous. On the one hand, our
rationale for writing this paper is to reassure readers about AI, to demystify the concept, and to
suggest that, as criminologists, we have much to offer this field. On the other hand, this paper
also makes clear that, if deployed maliciously or without due diligence, AI applications could
cause unfathomable damage. Thus, while it is not our intention to scare you about AI, we have
in part written this to train attention on some of AI’s more worrying tendencies. To achieve these
aims, the paper relies on a series of programmatic examples which we hope will serve as a useful
AI primer for interested criminologists.
What is AI?
‘By far the greatest danger of Artificial Intelligence’, AI theorist Eliezer Yudkowsky (2008) has quipped,
‘is that people conclude too early that they understand it’ (p. 308). Indeed, according to the journalist
Kelsey Piper (2018), ‘The conversation about AI is full of confusion, misinformation, and people talk-
ing past each other – in large part because we use the word ‘AI’ to refer to so many things’. In an
effort to overcome the confusion that stems from semantic proliferation, this section clarifies key AI
terminology, and some of the main functions and limitations of today’s AI systems.
Competing notions of artificial ‘intelligence’
‘Intelligence’ within the AI paradigm is a loaded and deeply contested philosophical and scientific
concept. Legg and Hutter (2007 a), for example, identified over 70 definitions. One way of over-
coming this confusion is to adhere to Stuart Russell and Peter Norvig’s (2009: 5) influential dyadic
framework that turns around two interrelated philosophical questions:

4 CRIME MEDIA CULTURE 00(0)
1. What is it we seek to create in AI? The manifestation of certain internal thought processes,
or more simply specific external behaviours/outcomes?
2. How do we measure an AI system’s performance? Is the goal simply to reproduce/mimic
human beings, or to surpass them by achieving ‘optimal’ performance towards certain
outcomes?
This distinction is worth exploring, not least because it illustrates how thinking about AI has
developed over time.
The first question essentially drives most of the popular commentary around whether or not
robots could ever possess ‘the right type’ of thought processes (‘sentience’/‘consciousness’).7
However, today most AI research has moved away from attempts to reproduce internal notions
of intelligence, to focus instead on more external (measurable) criteria. Indeed, this was even the
actual point of the oft-misunderstood ‘Turing Test’, which after all was envisaged as an ‘Imitation
Game’ (Turing, 1950: 460), rather than as a direct test of metaphysical computer sentience.8
This leads to the second question about measuring AI performance. Whereas earlier research
was driven almost exclusively by the ‘human-centric’ definition – and this understanding still drives
some adjacent social scientific analysis of AI today 9 – much contemporary computer science takes
the ‘humanness’ of AI as beside the point, or of symbolic value at best. After all, the value of a
high-frequency stock-trading algorithm is not that it can conduct a conversation with colleagues
at the watercooler, but rather that it is effective at trading derivatives. And even there, the point
is not that the algorithm performs exactly the same as a human trader, but that it can exceed
human performance at that task. Indeed, in many recent landmark cases, the super-human per-
formance of AI systems even results in explicitly non-human strategies that would never pass the
Turing test. Such was the case with Alpha Go’s famous initially-inscrutable but game-winning
‘move 37’ in its match against Lee Sedol, or with Alpha Zero’s ‘alien’ chess strategies (Knight,
2017). In modern AI, all too often it is not about ‘sentience’, but about capability–less about
precisely imitating human performance, and more about surpassing it in various domains.
Modern AI terminology
Historically, there have been a range of distinct approaches or ‘tribes’ in AI (Domigos, 2015), many
of which draw cultural and intellectual inspiration from fields such as logic, biology, statistics, or
psychology. One type of AI system that has been used for decades is ‘symbolic AI’, which
approaches tasks by following a set of explicit, logical ‘if-then rules’. For example, an aircraft auto-
pilot will keep an aeroplane within pre-set safe ranges in terms of altitude/airspeed. These rules
have been pre-programmed by human experts on the basis of their domain knowledge. Symbolic
AI underpins these so-called ‘expert systems’, which are so widely used that we often don’t think
of them as AI at all (Scharre, 2019).
However, in the last decade, three developments – advances in ‘Big Data’, processing power,
and algorithmic innovations – have led to the rise of ‘machine learning’ (ML), which is a more
dynamic, less ‘brittle’ AI approach. ML involves the system gradually teaching itself the ‘correct’
(or ‘useful’) rules it needs to perform tasks effectively. Importantly, it does so on the basis of train-
ing data, rather than (as with ‘expert systems’) having these rules explicitly programmed.
One specific type of ML, responsible for the current AI boom, is deep learning (DL). DL involves
deep neural networks – an AI technique inspired by how neurons communicate with each other
in biological brains. Artificial neural networks consist of layers of digital interconnected ‘neurons’,

Hayward and Maas 5
some of which receive an ‘input’ (e.g. information about a certain pixel in an image), others pro-
vide an ‘output’ (e.g. a ‘classification’ of the image). Each neuron monitors others in the layer
before it, and only if enough of those neurons send it a signal, will it then signal specific neurons
in the subsequent layer. After each overall wrong/right response to training data sample, the
system alters the strength of the connections between the involved neurons. In this way, it ‘learns’
to encode the rules to do its task.10 For instance, an image-recognition algorithm will create clus-
ters of neurons dedicated to the detection of increasingly more abstract concepts – from ‘pixel
colour’, to ‘edges and corners’, to ‘shapes’ (eyes, noses), to concepts (‘human’, ‘dog’).
Importantly, how a given AI is trained depends on the specific type of ML algorithm, and of the
sort of data used by the developers. There are a number of distinct approaches in use (Scharre and
Horowitz, 2018). First, in supervised learning, the algorithm uses training data that has already
been correctly pre-labelled by humans (e.g. photos of skin lesions, digitally labelled by doctors as
either cancerous or benign). Second, in unsupervised learning, algorithms can independently
identify patterns/correlations in ‘raw’, unlabelled data. This is useful not just because it saves on
the cost of compiling large datasets of labelled images, but because it enables AI to identify pat-
terns that humans cannot spot. Third, in reinforcement learning, AI systems ‘learn’ from feedback
from their (real or simulated) environment, discovering by trial-and-error what different (combina-
tions or sequences of) actions allow it to ‘win’ or maximize a ‘score’ metric (see Knight, 2017 on
Alpha Zero). Finally, a somewhat distinct application can be found in generative adversarial net-
works (GANs), whereby a neural network trains itself to generate fake data (images/sounds/vid-
eos), iteratively improving the quality of its creations until they are so indistinguishable from real
data that they can fool another (regular and pre-trained) recognition-algorithm.
Modern AI: uses, pre-conditions, and limitations
But beyond terminology and technical perspectives, what exactly is AI used for? What are the
preconditions for its deployment, and what, if any, are AI’s limitations and weaknesses? Here it’s
useful to disaggregate the distinct functions that AI can serve (Scharre and Horowitz, 2018). AI
systems can be used in any tasks involving data classification and generation, anomaly detection
(e.g. detecting fraudulent financial transactions or new malware), prediction (e.g. re-offence rates
for criminals), optimization of complex systems and tasks, and autonomous operation of robots/
cyber-physical platforms. What’s important to note about these tasks is they are all somewhat
narrow, as we do not yet currently possess so-called artificial ‘general’ intelligence (Legg and
Hutter, 2007 b) capable of outperforming humans in any task.11 Nonetheless, while narrow, many
of these functions are useful in diverse sectors and contexts, including inter alia healthcare, law
enforcement, advertising, and traffic management.
This does not mean AI is without limits. There are currently a range of preconditions for the
effective application of AI to a given problem. These include primarily access to large (and some-
times labelled) datasets, but also pragmatic issues relating to hardware, human talent, and invest-
ment availability. Nonetheless, both the computational and data barriers are falling; moreover,
they do not constrain the dissemination of already-trained systems – which is the concern in many
criminal contexts. At the same time, even when all pre-conditions are in place, today’s AI systems
still suffer from a cluster of problems sometimes known as ‘artificial stupidity’ (Domigos, 2015).
To start with, AI is often prone to ‘catastrophic forgetting’, the inability to easily transfer learning
from one context to another. Second, AI is intrinsically susceptible to ‘adversarial input’ – data
(e.g. visual or sound patterns) designed to alter the way the system processes stimuli, making it

6 CRIME MEDIA CULTURE 00(0)
‘hallucinate’. Third, AI systems do not have ‘common sense’, and thus contrary to some of the
connotations around the word ‘intelligent’, they inevitably suffer from the old ‘Garbage-in,
Garbage-out’ (GIGO) problem, which as we already stated leads to bias problems (Barocas and
Selbst, 2016). One final problem stems from the unpredictability of autonomous AI, which can
often react unexpectedly when encountering unforeseen new situations. It is not uncommon, for
example, for an AI programme to technically solve a problem, but not in a manner that was
intended (Lehman et al., 2018). For example, one algorithm tasked with learning to walk in a
simulated environment found that, rather than ‘evolving’ rudimentary legs, it could move forward
by growing very tall and then repeatedly falling over. As noted by Scharre (2019), ‘In the wrong
situation, AI systems go from supersmart to superdumb in an instant’.
So what does all this mean for criminology? Since at least the turn of the century, scientists,
science-fiction writers, and even occasionally criminologists (Mc Guire, 2007; Zedner, 2007) have
all predicted that the type of developments outlined above would lead inevitably not just to new
types of crime, but to new types of policing, punishment, and legal and pre-emptive decision
making. At this point, an important question emerges: what, functionally, should or should not
be considered ‘AI’ by criminologists? For example, does the term ‘AI’ include only narrowly
(humanoid) robots and modern neural networks, or does it also extend to include older ‘symbolic’
expert systems, automated logistic regression (simple machine-learning), or indeed all algorithmic
or computational processes such as those that drive the apps in your smart phone? This paper
does not seek to definitively determine the contours of what is or is not ‘AI’. Instead, our goal is
to conceive of the ‘AI-crime nexus’ as a broad and fast-developing landscape that involves a
diverse range of criminal, policing, and security practices that are now using technologies from
across this spectrum. In what follows, we draw on the latest research – and a selection of recent
incidents – to offer our own schematic vision of AI’s imminent impact on crime and criminal jus-
tice.12 Or in other words: now that we are in the future, what does it look like?
Criminal uses of AI
In their thoughtful recent survey article, King et al. (2019: 9–18) identify a range of threats posed
by ‘AI Crime’ (AIC), including drug trafficking, sexual crimes, theft, fraud, and forgery. While theirs
is a useful departure point, we structure our typology differently – not in terms of the area of the
law affected, but rather in how criminals might use AI. Here, we identify three categories: (1)
crimes with AI, (2) crimes on AI, and (3) crimes by AI.13
Crimes with AI (AI as tool)
Most fundamentally, AI can serve as a potent tool for ‘malicious’ criminal use by expanding and
changing the inherent nature of existing threats, or by introducing new threats altogether
(Brundage et al., 2018).
The expansion of existing threats can happen in a physical context. For example, drug traffickers
could turn to unmanned vehicles (especially unmanned underwater vehicles) to improve smuggling
success rates and the resilience of smuggling networks (Sharkey et al., 2010). More dramatically,
some have cautioned that the combination of cheap quadcopter drones with facial recognition
software and small explosive charges could, before long, create a new vector for mass terrorist
attacks on civilians (Topol, 2016). They warn of a new ‘weapon of mass destruction’, one made
more disturbing by the fact that it can (ethnically or politically) ‘discriminate’ in its targeting.14

Hayward and Maas 7
While these are significant concerns, it will be in its native cyberspace where AI poses the great-
est criminal threat. One use is in expanding existing hacking and malware threats. Researchers have
already developed GANS to generate new malware that can slip by virus filters (Kolosnjaji et al.,
2018). Another use is in scaling-up social engineering cyberattacks. Today, 91% of cybercrimes/
attacks start with a phishing email (Bahnsen et al., 2018) – a message which invites someone to
click on a link which then takes them to a website that allows criminals to obtain sensitive personal
information for the purposes of identity theft or fraud. However, to date, phishing emails are often
generic (e.g. ‘You’ve won $1 million!’) and therefore either easily caught by spam filters or uncon-
vincing to all but a relatively small sub-population of particularly vulnerable users. More personal-
ized phishing attacks (‘spear phishing’) are up to four times more effective than untargeted ones
(Jagatic et al., 2007), but are labour-intensive as they need to be hand-tailored to target specific
demographics or individuals. However, with ‘Deep Phish’ AI (Bahnsen et al., 2018), systems can
automatically learn from and combine features (synthetic URLs, etc.) from other phishing attacks,
avoiding spam filters and improving success rates. At the same time, AI may also play a role in
improving defense: the recently developed ‘Panacea’ AI system uses natural language processing
to respond to incoming fraudulent emails, engaging attackers in conversation to gain information
about their true identity, while also wasting their time (Dalton, et al., 2020).
In another experiment, two researchers used AI to automatically generate large numbers of
social media messages, all tailored to specific targets’ profiles and past behaviour, convincing
these users to click on phishing links (Seymour and Tully, 2016). Likewise, ‘identity-cloning’ bots
which mimic people on social media, have shown high success rates in embedding themselves in
social networks, since many users habitually accept all friend requests (Bilge et al., 2009). Indeed,
in 2019, the Associated Press reported that AI-generated faces had been used to create phantom
Linked In accounts for the purposes of getting embedded in the Washington D.C. policy establish-
ment (Satter, 2019).15
Beyond scaling up existing threats, how might AI be used to develop new threats currently
beyond the scope of human actors? A vivid and now increasingly common example here are so-
called ‘Deep Fakes’ (Chesney and Citron, 2019) – GAN applications capable of forging any type of
media, including photographs of faces (Vincent, 2018),16 video footage, voices ‘cloned’ from one-
minute speech samples (Gholipour, 2017), or coherent text for targeted ‘neural fake news’ (Zellers
et al., 2019), as illustrated by the GPT-2 and Grover systems. These Deep Fakes have already
proved convincing. In March 2019, thieves used voice-mimicking software to copy the voice of a
CEO, calling the director of a subsidiary British energy company. This resulted in the latter execu-
tive transferring $243,000 to a fraudulent account (Harwell, 2019). Moreover, much of the com-
mentary around Deep Fakes has been concerned with their potential misuse for political
manipulation. This is not unwarranted. For instance, in Belgium in 2018, the Flemish Socialist Party
used these techniques to create a fake video of Donald Trump supposedly calling on Belgium to
exit the Paris Climate Agreement. Meant as a climate-change stunt, many of the party’s support-
ers shared the video (Von der Burchard, 2018). Since then, Deep Fakes have gradually cropped up
in a range of electoral contexts. However, while Deep Fakes will undoubtedly contribute to our
‘post-truth’ political discourse, it remains the case that, currently, the primary function of this
technology lies in the ability of criminals to create synthetic, yet plausible, intimate material for
harassment, blackmail or ‘sextortion’ (cyber blackmail) (Spera et al., 2016). Indeed, a 2019 report
shows that 96% of the 14,600 online deep fake videos involved the forging of non-consensual
pornographic material (Ajder et al., 2019).17

8 CRIME MEDIA CULTURE 00(0)
AI can also forge other types of imaging-data. A recent study showed how malicious actors could
use it to tamper with hospital data, adding or removing evidence of medical conditions from volu-
metric (3 D) medical scans. This fake information could then be used to sabotage political candidates,
corrupt research, compromise health infrastructure, or even commit murder (Mirsky et al., 2019).
Finally, AI is already illustrating the frailty of existing (cyber)security protocols. In 2017, New
York University (NYU) researchers used GANs to generate ‘Deep Master Prints’ – synthetic fake
‘fingerprints’ that can serve as a master key for biometric identification systems (Bontrager et al.,
2017; Hern, 2018).18 In the same year, ‘Pass GAN’ was trained on datasets of leaked passwords,
learning to generate likely candidates for human passwords in order to generate high-quality
password guesses. In tests, this system outperformed existing state-of-the-art tools like Hash Cat,
matching 51%–73% more passwords (Hitaj et al., 2017).
Crimes on AI (AI as attack surface)
Crimes ‘on’ AI involve attacks that exploit and reverse-engineer system vulnerabilities in a bid to
fool or ‘hypnotise’ AI systems. It has been possible for some time to ‘poison’ a system’s training
data. Infamously, Microsoft Twitter chatbot, ‘Tay’, was turned racist inside a day after users fed it
a slurry of right-wing phrases (Gershgorn, 2016). Such incidents are just the tip of the iceberg. ML
systems, when classifying data, often rely disproportionately on counterintuitive details and pat-
terns. Hackers can use this feature to reverse-engineer input data to spoof systems into displaying
particular behaviour (Nguyen et al., 2015). Worse, this can be done in ways that are not apparent
to human inspection (Goodfellow et al., 2014, 2017). Moreover, attacks can often be carried out
even in ‘black-box settings’, where an attacker does not have access to the internal weighting of
the network. Researchers have shown it is even possible to generate a custom-made ‘adversarial
patch’ sticker which causes an AI to misclassify objects as ‘toasters’ (Brown et al., 2017). Elsewhere,
researchers managed to 3 D-print a model of a turtle, altered to be perceived by AI as a ‘rifle’ from
nearly every angle (Athalye et al., 2018).
Gu et al. (2017) have demonstrated that at times these problems are exacerbated by vulnerabili-
ties in the ML model supply-chain. Given that many users outsource the (computationally intensive)
training procedure or use pre-trained models, adversaries can create a ‘Bad Net’, a maliciously trained
network that performs very well on the user’s regular scenario, but which contains ‘environmental
backdoors’ – specific inputs that fool the system into incorrect or dangerous behaviour. For example,
in several cases, researchers showed that placing stickers on traffic signs and street surfaces can
cause self-driving cars to ignore speed restrictions and swerve headlong into oncoming traffic
(Evtimov et al., 2017; Tencent Keen Security Lab, 2019). Such problems are likely to become ever
more commonplace. In 2018, Google researchers demonstrated that image-recognition neural net-
works can be tricked into performing free computations for attackers, potentially turning smart-
phones into botnets by exposing them to doctored images (Elsayed et al., 2018).
Such ‘AI hacks’ have serious real-world implications across diverse sectors. In healthcare,
researchers have demonstrated that adversarial attacks can co-opt diagnostic algorithms to facili-
tate medical insurance fraud (Finlayson et al., 2019). Others have shown how even text-process-
ing AI can be vulnerable to manipulation, as was shown recently by the system ’Text Fooler’,
which could analyze texts and suggest strategic synonyms to be changed in order to dramatically
alter the decisions of AI systems in areas from job applications to fake news detection
(Jin 2020; Knight 2020). Another application exploited vulnerabilities in voice-recognition systems

Hayward and Maas 9
such as Alexa, Siri and Google Assistant. Replicating audio waveforms (some accurate to within
99.9% of the original), researchers sent hidden voice commands to these smart speakers, mak-
ing them dial phone numbers or open websites.19 In theory, this could be used to attack ‘smart
homes’ – unlocking doors, wiring money, or triggering buy-orders for incriminating or embar-
rassing products (Smith, 2018).20
These same adversarial techniques are also being used in the context of activism and resistance
against pervasive surveillance culture(s). In Belgium, researchers designed an adversarial image
which, if printed and carried around, rendered a person invisible to AI computer-vision systems
(Thys et al., 2019).21 In a similar vein, artists and fashion designers have started to collaborate with
tech researchers to create wearable items like the ‘anti-AI T-shirt’ (Xu et al., 2019) and cosmetic
‘dazzle camouflage’ (Eckert et al., 2013), both of which (it is claimed) might protect protestors
from identification by face-detection cameras.22
In summary, adversarial input shows how diverse actors can sprinkle an environment with what
Scharre and Horowitz (2018, 15) call ‘cognitive landmines’, raising critical security vulnerabilities
in ‘Internet-of-Things’ systems and posing problems for advocates of the ‘smart city paradigm’.
While work is underway on detecting adversarial examples (Xiao et al., 2018), many of these
detection methods can themselves be easily bypassed (Carlini and Wagner, 2017), suggesting that
those seeking to assure the security of AI infrastructure have their hands full.
Crimes by AI (AI as intermediary)
In 2015, a group of artists released a random shopping bot on the dark web – with the unsurpris-
ing outcome that it eventually bought drugs, and was arrested by Swiss police (Kasperkevic,
2015). This incident not only provides a lucid example of our third AIC category, ‘Crimes by AI’,
but also, more importantly, it raises the thorny issue of AI’s legal status – and its potential misuse
as ‘criminal shield/intermediary’.
Some lawyers have suggested that it may already be possible to grant certain algorithms some
semblance of legal personhood. Bayern (2016) has argued that loopholes in existing US company
laws allow for the functional incorporation of ‘artificially intelligent entities’ with legal person-
hood. The legal intricacies behind such arrangements, or the broader merits or societal value of
such algorithmic personhood (cf. Turner, 2018), are beyond the scope of this paper. However,
what is of interest here is how such legal chicanery enables new modalities of white-collar crime
(Lo Pucki, 2017). Specifically, using AI as an ‘independent’ criminal intermediary poses serious
questions for cornerstone legal standards such as the voluntarily undertaken criminal act (actus
reus), criminal intent (mens rea), and various issues surrounding the knowledge threshold, fore-
seeability and liability (Williams, 2017: 25; Mc Allister, 2018: 47; King et al., 2019: 6–7).
These concerns over criminal liability and intentionality are likely to play a role in the context of
algorithmic market manipulation, price fixing, and collusion (King et al., 2019: 9–12). In a 2016
experiment, computer scientists showed that AI trading agents can discover and learn to execute
profitable strategies that amount to market manipulation. Using reinforcement learning, an ‘arti-
ficial agent’ explored the space of actions it could take on the market, and found that placing
deceitful false buying orders was a profitable strategy (Miranda et al., 2016). Likewise, near-
instantaneous pricing information among algorithms ensures that different companies’ algo-
rithms can sometimes artificially, inadvertently and tacitly settle on higher prices – essentially
resulting in actions equivalent to collusion (Ezrachi and Stucke, 2017). Such behaviour can emerge

10 CRIME MEDIA CULTURE 00(0)
quickly, possibly as a result of unanticipated interactions with other algorithms. While in many
cases, these failures are easily spotted – compare the two pricing algorithms which, in 2011,
engaged in a robotic price war over a book on flies, pushing up the price to US $23.7 million 23
(Sutter, 2011) – in other systems they are much harder to detect.
AIC: estimating the threat
Let us conclude our discussion of AIC with a question: will the type of crimes outlined above
become commonplace, or will these examples prove yet again that what is easy in the lab can be
difficult to scale in the real-world? To estimate how widely available these AI tools may be, it is
instructive to draw on the example of the ‘Blackshades Remote Access Tool’, which, although not
technically an AI application, can provide an illustration of how digital technologies can be dis-
seminated and made rapidly accessible between different actors. Described as ‘a criminal fran-
chise in a box’ (Markoff, 2016), and sold via Pay Pal for as little as US $40, Blackshades allowed
users without any technical skills to effectively deploy ransomware and conduct eavesdropping
operations. Prevalent in 2014, and only stopped after a major international cyber crackdown
(Sullivan, 2014), Blackshades was, as the cybersecurity expert Brian Krebs (2014) succinctly
observed, ‘a tool created and marketed principally for buyers who wouldn’t know how to hack
their way out of a paper bag’. While Blackshades did not involve AI, it is not hard to see how crimi-
nal incentives are the same when it comes to emerging criminal AI tools. Many if not most of the
AI capabilities described above are – or derive from – dual-use capabilities that are innocuous or
beneficial in other applications. Moreover, the culture of AI is characterized by a high degree of
openness, and even in cases where the source code is not already openly shared, many new AI
algorithms can be independently reproduced by other researchers in a matter of months, making
for a low barrier to proliferation (Brundage et al., 2018: 17; Shevlane and Dafoe, 2020). On the
supply-side, AI tools, especially pre-trained versions, are as accessible as any software; on the
demand-side, many of these tools offer extensions on, or improvements over, the precise sort of
criminal capabilities or technologies which (cyber)criminals have long sought to acquire, whether
in terms of pursuing ‘zero-day exploits’, or through tools such as Blackshades. This being the case,
we estimate that AIC will be a major phenomenon within five years.24
Policing uses of AI
Having discussed the short-term future of AIC, we now address the reverse side of the crimino-
logical discussion. In the face of crimes both old and new, how will police departments harness
these technologies to even – or overturn – the playing field? Furthermore, how might this further
accelerate the existing militarization of police cultures (Wall and Linnemann, 2014)?
Recently there has been extensive attention on the potential uses of AI and robotics for law
enforcement (INTERPOL and UNICRI, 2019; Zardiashvili et al., 2019), including critical examinations of
how to ensure democratic accountability for ML-based predictive policing technologies (Vestby and
Vestby, 2019). One question that frequently emerges, as in other areas of human activity, is whether
AI and robots will ultimately replace human actors? Here, as Danaher (2018) suggests, a few distinc-
tions must be made.
The first is between ‘tasks’ and ‘jobs’. Police work involves a wide range of discrete tasks (patrol-
ling, form-filling, ascribing ‘a crime number’, etc.). Here, AI may well be used to considerable effect.

Hayward and Maas 11
A police officer’s ‘job’, however, extends beyond these tasks, to broader roles of ‘community polic-
ing’, investigation, reassurance, arrest, and so on and these activities may be harder to replace. The
second distinction is between AI’s use as ‘tool’, ‘partner’ and ‘usurper’. When technology is a simple
tool of policing, it is used to assist in certain specific tasks that are part of a police officer’s job. One
could compare this to past advances in fingerprint analysis or DNA evidence.25 For instance, recent
research has demonstrated how ML can help with evidential links, such as recognizing a gun’s
caliber and model from audio recordings of shots (Raponi et al., 2020), matching crime-scene gun-
shot residue with the chemical characteristics of unspent ammunition (Gallidabino et al., 2018), or
determining what type of shoe left a given imprint at a crime scene (Kong, 2017). To some extent,
AI tools can even play a role in identifying and flagging signs of crimes mediated by other AI systems,
as with the errant trading agents discussed above (King et al., 2019: 23–25).26 When AI operates as
partner, certain aspects of technology function autonomously, but still require human input and
analysis – such as crime-prediction algorithms (see below). Finally, where technology serves as
usurper, no human input is required. Keeping this framework in mind, we now outline three themes
that we believe will be constitutive of the coming ‘police-tech nexus’.
The seeing state: scalable, comprehensive, inescapable surveillance
First, AI promises (or threatens) the expansion of highly granular digital photography, described
succinctly by the ACLU as the ‘dawn of robot surveillance’ (Stanley, 2019). Developments in data
storage, along with advances in AI-enabled automatic video analytics, can turn passive, scatter-
shot monitoring into an ever-more granular, comprehensive, and searchable surveillance record.
Modern AI can already identify and distinguish emotions (Schwartz, 2019), forms of ‘suspicious’
behaviour (Schneier, 2019), and in one recent case was allegedly able to flag potential shoplifters
by their body language, alerting grocery-store staff via a smartphone app (Du and Maki, 2019).
Moreover, systems such as the ‘i Border Ctrl’ AI, funded since 2018 under the European Union’s
Horizon 2020 programme and since deployed at airports, purport to provide automated decep-
tion detection on the basis of facial micro-expressions, though many concerns have been raised
over the scientific basis of this approach (Jupe and Keatley, 2019).
Beyond interpreting what people are doing in videos, AI can also recognize who is doing it (Phillips,
2018),27 even when faces are disguised with masks (Singh et al., 2017). Moreover, AI surveillance is
now very easy to graft onto extant surveillance infrastructures. Chinoy (2019), for example, used
‘Rekognition’ (Amazon’s commercially-available facial recognition tool) to illustrate how easy it is to
match employee photos from public sources against footage collected from three regular cameras
around Bryant Park in New York City. In one day, the system detected 2,750 faces, including a local
State University of New York (SUNY) professor. The total cost of the set-up was US $60.
Because extensive citizen name and face databases already exist, and because AI face-recog-
nition can easily be layered on top of ‘dumb’ CCTV architectures, the ease and speed by which
AI surveillance can be rolled out is truly staggering. Indeed, because faces (unlike fingerprints)
are hard to conceal and can be scanned and recorded unknowingly from distance, some have
argued that facial recognition is categorically different from other forms of surveillance and
should be subject to an outright ban (Hartzog and Selinger, 2018). The ACLU, likewise, has
expressed concerns that such algorithmic systems are untested, discriminatory, and subject to
abuse (Stanley, 2019: 34–41). It is because of these and other related concerns that Stark
(2019), a media scholar who works for Microsoft Research Montreal, referred to facial recogni-
tion as ‘the plutonium of AI’.

12 CRIME MEDIA CULTURE 00(0)
The ability of AI systems to detect and infer identities does not, however, stop at cameras.
Other technologies are now being trialled, including echolocation to identify human activity
(Chen, 2019); ‘Speech 2 Face’, which allows users to reconstruct loosely identifying facial images –
including age, gender and ethnicity – from voice audio alone (Oht et al., 2019); and the Pentagon’s
new ‘Jetson’ laser which identifies unique heartbeat signatures (through clothes) at a range of up
to 200 metres. (Hambling, 2019). Increasingly, it seems one can scan anyone with almost anything.
Rolled out society-wide, these developments make for a powerful tool – not just for fighting
crime, but for social control writ large. China has an estimated 200 million surveillance cameras
countrywide, and has reportedly begun incorporating AI in these systems (Mozur, 2018). In some
cases, this results in explicitly racialized surveillance systems, with algorithms configured to flag
members of the ethnic Uighur minority by their facial features (Mozur, 2019).
One further dimension is the increasing intermingling of state police capabilities with private
companies. For instance, Axon Enterprise (formerly Taser International) supplies 47 of the 69 largest
US police agencies with body cameras, and has been involved in marketing an AI system trained on
30 petabytes of video (over ten times larger than the Netflix database) collected from 200,000 offic-
ers. This system processes bodycam footage to assist police by anticipating problems and generating
situation reports (Perry, 2018).28 Among a host of concerns (Patterson and Greene, 2018), Joh
(2017) has argued that these developments also highlight how private surveillance vendors exercise
undue influence over the investigative and arrest practices of police departments.29 Furthermore,
such unease is exacerbated by meaningful concerns over proprietary datasets and software, which
typically are not publicly available. More generally, others have raised concerns about how the mili-
tary heritage underlying many digital technologies such as the internet may inflect their usage for
surveillance (Levine, 2018). These developments and others have also been read in the context of
the creeping construction of larger architectures of ‘surveillance capitalism’ (Zuboff 2019).
The hidden state: ubiquitous yet tacit surveillance
Second, the integration of AI with drones and ‘smart-city’ sensors creates new forms of ‘wide-area
surveillance’ that are ubiquitous, yet subtle, tacit, and deniable. In terms of ubiquity, the falling
cost of sensors and drone platforms, coupled with the increasing ‘stand-off’ distance of camera
functionality, is greatly extending the reach of AI surveillance. Today, accurate gigapixel cameras
can recognize faces and licence plates in photos taken kilometres away (Schneier, 2019) such that
a single drone overflight of a protest could in principle enable authorities to compile a list of all
attendees.30
In fact, such capabilities are not even that new: a decade ago, DARPA introduced ARGUS-IS, a 1.8
gigapixel unmanned video drone platform capable of continuously recording an area of 25-square
kilometres with a resolution of 15 cm (Hambling, 2009).31 In 2014, the US Air Force integrated this
programme into the ‘Gorgon Stare’ system, which deploys Wide-Angle-Motion-Imagery (WAMI) to
enable drones to track multiple targets over large areas. These early applications of Gorgon Stare
were beset with technical problems (Cockburn, 2016). However, subsequent iterations have proven
more efficient, and have seen expanded use, most infamously as an investigative law enforcement
tool in Baltimore (Michel, 2019). This merging of WAMI with other digital and biometric sensors ush-
ers in a new era of the ‘fully fused’ or ‘captured’ (Sadowski, 2019; Sadowski and Bendor, 2019) city.
In another application of stand-off ‘stealth surveillance’, China has developed drones in the shape
of small robotic ‘doves’ allowing them to blend in with bird flocks across several provinces (Chen,
2018). As a citizen, it is easy to object to clearly visible public surveillance cameras; it is much harder

Hayward and Maas 13
to notice, let alone resist, distant, unseen technologies, especially those that do not simply watch,
but also infer sensitive facts from statistical projections based on one’s demographic profile.
Indeed, in some cases, the governmental role in explicitly monitoring behaviour is rendered
opaque because it is further sublimated into a technologically mediated decentralized system of
social control. Such is the case in the much-discussed Chinese Social Credit system – in reality a
patchwork of different systems which collect data on a range of online and offline activities. This
information is then aggregated into a score out of 800, which is then tied to benefits, discounts
and other incentives (Mozur, 2018). Others have cautioned that the sophistication and Orwellian
reach of the Chinese Social Credit System is often overstated (Ahmed, 2019). Yet even in its nas-
cent stage, it already demonstrates one ‘evolving practice of control’ (Creemers, 2018) that will
only be strengthened as AI allows the further leveraging of citizen data.
More abstractly, these trends also demonstrate how technology accelerates and exacerbates
the underlying transition in the means by which governments seek to regulate citizens’ behaviour.
This marks a shift away from traditional overt and explicitly normative enforcement of law, to the
non-intrusive shaping of (urban) architecture and space. For instance, Joh (2019) has described
how policing in the smart city follows the Disneyland model, likening it to the way that some high-
tech amusement parks anticipate and prevent disorder by shaping visitor’s behaviour through
physical barriers, as well as through the omnipresence of employees who notice and intercept
errors. Such architectures do not feel intrusive or coercive, but can still be effective tools of gov-
ernance. We see this in smart cities in the development of (algorithmic) tools to ‘hypernudge’
(Yeung, 2017) citizens into adopting certain prosocial behaviours.
Finally, Brownsword (2015) has extended this argument, suggesting that the emergence of regu-
latory technologies of control (including but not limited to AI), can lead to a shift among the ‘regula-
tory modality’. He illustrates this argument with reference to a golf club that is experiencing problems
with visitors driving golf carts over flowerbeds. According to Brownsword, the possible (successive)
preventive options open to the club mirror or anticipate a larger trend in policing. Originally, the golf
club relied on social norm-enforcement among members (shaming; censure for flowerbed-viola-
tors); when this proved insufficient, they switched to formal normative ‘law’ (setting up rules with
specified fines for members caught damaging the flowers); the enforcement of this normative rule
was eventually supported through the use of technology (the use of CCTV cameras to monitor viola-
tions). Finally, however, technology enabled the wholesale substitution of the normative rule: GPS
chips were embedded in the golf carts, and the flowerbed areas geo-fenced to ensure that golf carts
would shut down when approaching the flowerbeds. This example of a fundamental shift to a non-
normative regulatory modality for controlling human behaviour, nicely illustrates how, in the future,
AI technologies will come to facilitate the sublimation of policing architectures.
The oracle state: from detection and enforcement, to prediction and
prevention
Third, as in other fields, AI systems can pick up on subtle patterns to offer (ostensibly) accurate
predictions of future behaviour, including criminal conduct. Increasingly, this facilitates a shift in
policing practices, from those aimed at detecting violations in order to enforce the law, to those
that seek to predict criminal acts in order to prevent them entirely (Danaher, 2018). This is seen in
high-profile debates over the use of algorithms to predict re-offence rates for pre-trial bail deci-
sions. In one study, Kleinberg et al. (2017) found that their algorithm outperformed human judges

14 CRIME MEDIA CULTURE 00(0)
at predicting a defendant’s risk of re-offending. The authors argued that adopting this mode of
prediction could yield ‘potentially large welfare gains [. . .] crime can be reduced by up to 24.8%
with no change in jailing rates, or jail populations can be reduced by 42.0% with no increase in
crime rates’. While such results are alluring, one must be mindful of both the hype surrounding
these systems, and their underlying ‘political patterning’ (see Kaufmann et al., 2018).
To start with, many of the (in)famous examples of ‘predictive policing’ do not in fact involve all
that much AI. The predictive programme run by Palantir Technologies in New Orleans from 2012
onwards (in cooperation with police, but without the city council’s knowledge), was based on
human-curated social network-mapping and fairly simple scoring algorithms (Winston, 2018).
Likewise, ‘Pred Pol’ primarily looks at just three variables of crime, in order to create ‘crime hot-
spots’ to guide police resource allocation and patrol routes. This is a far cry from the complex
patterns distilled by deep neural networks.
Other problems abound – including questions about accuracy. For example, there is con-
siderable contestation about whether the recidivism predictions of the much-vaunted
COMPAS programme are any more accurate than those made by random people (Dressel
and Farid, 2018; Lin et al, 2020). Various studies have suggested that these programmes are
plagued by baked-in racial bias (Kirchner et al., 2016; Lum and Isaac, 2016, but see, how-
ever, Kamyshev, 2019), whether they use AI or conventional statistics. In other words, if
predictive AI systems are trained on unrepresentative or biased datasets, the inevitable result
is a ‘runaway feedback loop’ of self-confirming predictions (Ensign et al., 2017). As the algo-
rithm designates certain areas as at high risk of crime, police forces dispatch more patrols,
ensuring they arrest proportionally more people committing crime, which the algorithm then
processes as further evidence of a high-risk crime area. In effect, the system corrupts its own
future training data. As such, as Kamyshev (2019) has argued, the policing potential of pre-
dictive AI systems is undermined by their actual sub-par accuracy, lack of transparency,
susceptibility to self-corrupting feedback loops, and failure to cohere to the basic goals of a
judicial system.
AI and policing: predictions and meditations
Discussion of AI policing tools can rapidly turn dystopian. But how widely will such tools prolifer-
ate? On the one hand, the suppliers and customers are there. For instance, in 2018, Lookout and
the Electronic Frontier Foundation (2018) revealed an extensive spying campaign by an elusive
group called ‘Dark Caracal’, which used advanced hacking and surveillance tools apparently dis-
seminated by an unknown third party, which had supplied at least half a dozen other surveillance
campaigns.32 While it should be stressed that Dark Caracal did not involve AI tools, it is not hard
to see how, in the future, more sophisticated ‘AI-surveillance-by-subscription’ tools would be very
appealing to some governments as indicated by reports that show how China is selling plug-and-
play surveillance tech to states such as Ecuador (Mozur et al., 2019). Conversely, it is also easy to
overstate the ease and speed of adoption of new surveillance technologies. For instance, in his
study of the Danish police, Sausdal (2018) showed that, contrary to the bold claims of tech com-
panies, detectives actually saw high-tech surveillance tools as frustrating and frequently a hin-
drance to their work.
The first law of technology, as coined by Melvin Kranzberg (1986), reads, ‘technology is neither
good nor bad; nor is it neutral’. The above discussion has certainly demonstrated room for

Hayward and Maas 15
concern over policing uses of AI. At the same time, just as we reject naïve techno-optimism, we
must also not fall prey to doom-and-gloom techno-pessimism. In truth, much of AI’s net impact
will depend on critical political and cultural choices which societies will make more generally. At
least as significantly, these technologies may come to shift the very terms of the societal trade-offs
which we have long taken as axiomatic. To give one provocative example: the term ‘privacy-pre-
serving surveillance’ may strike some as an oxymoron. Yet while criminologists are right to
approach such new concepts with suspicion, they will nevertheless have to engage with new
developments in AI – in the areas of ‘homomorphic encryption’ or ‘federated learning’ – that
could potentially develop monitoring systems that are (at least on the surface) less intrusive and
more accountable than old surveillance approaches. The dissolving or softening of such trade-offs
is not unprecedented: the introduction of sniffer dogs at airports offered a new way to detect
drugs or bombs, which was both more effective and less intrusive than previous security measures
(Trask, 2017). Likewise, if configured and utilized appropriately, AI could even serve as a ‘privacy-
enhancing technology’ (Els, 2017; see, Birnstill, et al., 2015), or at least potentially reduce the
intrusiveness of policing, transforming digital surveillance from a blunt to a sharp instrument. At
a larger scale, the ways we choose to resolve the safety/privacy balance may also come to be reas-
sessed, if or when increasingly powerful technologies usher us into a ‘vulnerable world’ (Bostrom,
2019). We offer this example not in the hope of convincing the reader. Instead, we propose it is
an illustration of the debates that new AI systems will – and perhaps should – re-open. At its best,
we hope that AI, and the choices societies make around it, can help criminologists re-examine –
and if necessary, reconsider – certain foundational or treasured assumptions that, like it or not,
are going to be tested by the coming new technological age.
Conclusion
This article introduced the concept of AI to a criminological audience by offering a cautionary but
measured overview of the technology’s workings, applications, strengths and limits. One could
summarize our argument simply, as follows: for all its utility, AI is not magic. Just like any data-
driven programme, its objectivity and efficacy are still determined by that old computational
axiom, ‘GIGO’. Indeed, given the essentially brittle nature of neural network decision-making, it’s
clear that fine-grained human expertise is even more important in computing today than it has
ever been; both in relation to parameter/hypothesis framing and overall system governance.
This article’s ambitions, however, extended beyond simply striking a balance between over-
wrought narratives of tech dystopia and Silicon Valley utopia (see e.g. Barbrook and Cameron
2001, on the ‘Californian Ideology’). Most of all, we have a more specific, disciplinary aim to
encourage criminologists of all stripes to extend their research interests towards the ‘tech-crime
nexus’. Many criminologists will naturally balk at such an idea, believing that without a mathemat-
ics or computer science degree they are incapable of making an informed contribution to debates
about AI and ML. We disagree. Indeed, as AI’s impact on policing, punishment, sentencing, and
inevitably criminality, continues to grow, the need for criminologists to engage fully with net-
worked technology and its complexity is not just desirable but essential if we are to stand any
chance of limiting its potential excesses.
Our thinking here is shaped by what James Bridle (2018) calls the chasm of computational
thinking: the disconcerting tendency evident across all spheres of contemporary life, from education

16 CRIME MEDIA CULTURE 00(0)
to warfare, to cede power and problem-prioritization to reified technologies and networked sys-
tems connected to vast repositories of data in the belief that any social challenge can be solved
solely by the application of computation and technological acceleration. For Bridle (2018), the
unthinking faith in a combination of information and automation represents a ‘cognitive hack’
wherein decision-making and consciousness are offloaded onto the machine, resulting in ‘an
ever-increasing opacity allied to a concentration of power, and the retreat of that power into ever
more narrow domains of experience’ (p. 34). To counter this direction of travel, criminologists
must do more than simply criticize AI’s problematic tendencies. Instead, we must look to proac-
tively ‘shape and direct’ the conversation about technology within our field. Only then, when we
have expanded the criminological imagination sufficiently to fully embrace the tech-crime nexus
will we be in a position to ensure digital systems and practices that are both ethical and
non-discriminatory.
Finally, a word about nomenclature. Over the years, criminologists have proven extremely crea-
tive when it comes to adding a prefix to their discipline. In recent times we have seen the emer-
gence of a host of interesting subfields such as ‘border criminology’, ‘visual criminology’, ‘queer
criminology’, ‘Southern criminology’, and now even a ‘ghost criminology’. As criminologists turn
their attention to the study of technology, further prefixes are likely to emerge. However, if crimi-
nology is to fully engage with the complex algorithms, networks and digital infrastructures now
mediating human beings and their environment, further fracturing the discipline into sub-special-
isms is not enough. Much better to make changes at a more universal level; to forge a rounded,
tech-literate criminology that will be able to deal with the next wave of scientific disruptions and
realignments as they arrive. It is for this reason that we are not calling here for anything as specific
as ‘a criminology of AI’. Such a development is too narrow and would, in due time, need to be
buttressed (or replaced) by the likes of, say, a ‘quantum-computing criminology’, or a ‘biohacking
criminology’, and so on. If, as now seems clear, radical new technologies are redrawing the con-
tours of the existing liberal order with profound implications for crime and punishment, criminol-
ogy must adapt if it is to remain relevant. This will, of course, involve reimaging criminology’s
existing theoretical and methodological horizons, including an overdue abandonment of some of
the classical models of human behaviour and theories of crime devised in the twentieth century.
To do anything less would mean to risk criminology’s obsolescence.
Declaration of conflicting interests
The author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or pub-
lication of this article.
Funding
The author(s) received no financial support for the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.
ORCID i Ds
Keith J Hayward https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7135-9131
Matthijs M Maas https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6170-9393

Hayward and Maas 17
Notes
1. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QUK 6 r EUZAc A
2. This is not, of course, a universal position. Over the same period, one group of computer scientists –
cybersecurity experts – have done much to promote a more cautious ‘security mind-set’ (Schneier,
2008).
3. Even when caution is exercised, this does not necessarily garner unanimous support from a tech commu-
nity that adheres to a long-established open-source culture. In 2019, the Elon Musk-backed non-profit
Open AI developed ‘GPT-2’, a language model capable of composing coherent prose (including news
releases) given just two sentences of context (demo available at https://transformer.huggingface.co/).
Initially, Open AI only publicly released smaller versions of its system, expressing concern that the full tool
might be used by malicious actors ‘to generate deceptive, biased, or abusive language at scale’ (Radford
et al., 2019). This decision sparked an ongoing – and at times divisive – debate in the AI community over
when, if ever, it is appropriate to withhold AI research (Leibowicz et al., 2019), with another lab later
releasing their own ‘neural fake news’ AI, to help researchers identify fake news (Zellers et al., 2019).
Eventually, by November 2019, Open AI released the full model, along with some reflections on future
responsible release strategies for AI applications (Solaiman et al., 2019).
4. We define ‘technology’ here as any combination of tools, skills, processes, and techniques by which
human capability is extended (Bennett Moses, 2007: 592).
5. King et al. (2019: 2) describe AIC as ‘a relatively young and inherently interdisciplinary area – spanning
socio-legal studies to formal science’.
6. Naturally, we acknowledge the pioneering work on cybercrime by Shelia Brown, Yvonne Jewkes, David
Wall, Majid Yar and others. However, at this point we would stress the key distinction between early
research into ‘online crimes’ and the potentially more expansive world of criminality associated with
radical new technologies.
7. For example, in 2011 a little robot named Qbo passed a ‘mirror test’, chirping, ‘Oh. This is me. Nice’, as it
was prompted with its reflection (Ackerman, 2011). These experiments are often heralded in the media
as evidence of ‘self-aware’ robots. But to most researchers such tests reveal more about the shortcom-
ings of psychological testing than offering any profound evidence of ‘sentient’ AI.
8. The Turing test itself was ‘passed’ in 2014 by ‘Eugene Goostman’, a chatbot which convinced 33% of
the judges it was human by impersonating a Ukrainian schoolboy.
9. The human-centric definition is utilized in King et al.’s (2019) AIC study. However, we consider that defi-
nition too narrow; while ‘human-like’ autonomous systems may pose peculiar challenges, many of the
most potent criminal – or policing – uses of AI involve broader non-human and non-anthropomorphic
conceptions of intelligence.
10. When using words such as ‘learn’ or ‘discover’ in the context of AI-systems, we should stress that we are
deploying these terms in an explicitly non-anthropomorphic sense.
11. Surveys show AI-experts expect such capabilities within the next three to five decades (Grace et al.,
2018).
12. It is important to acknowledge that some of the selected examples that follow derive from private research
labs, and as such may have vested corporate interests in exaggerating the sophistication or performance
of their system(s). As such it may be wise to treat some of the claims made with a degree of caution.
13. Hypothetically, one could entertain a fourth category of crimes against AI (as rights-carrying ‘person’),
but this is conditional on their being granted legal status. There is also another indirect category – the
role of AI or robots in promoting general criminality, or provoking certain crimes – such as the concern
over how interaction with social bots and ‘sexbots’ might desensitize perpetrators towards sexual harm
(Danaher, 2017; King et al., 2019: 15–16).
14. For a dramatized depiction of this scenario, see the video ‘Slaughterbots’, by the Future of Life Institute,
at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v = Hip TO_7 m UOw&t = 203 s .
15. One such fake account managed to connect with Paul Winfree, former Deputy Head of President
Trump’s domestic policy council. When contacted for comment, Winfree admitted that ‘I literally accept
every friend request that I get’.

18 CRIME MEDIA CULTURE 00(0)
16. For a vivid example, see https://thispersondoesnotexist.com/, which generates faces of non-existing peo-
ple. At http://www.whichfaceisreal.com/, you can attempt to distinguish real from fake people.
17. One egregious example of Deep Fake’s potential for gendered violence was ‘Deep Nude’, a June 2019
commercially available, $50 app which removed clothing from images of women, making them look
realistically nude (Cole, 2019). The app was soon taken down after widespread outcry.
18. See Shumailov et al. (2019) on smartphone ‘acoustic side channel attacks’, which can detect the sound
of fingers on touch-screen keyboards, recovering 61% of 4-digit PIN-codes within 20 attempts.
19. In another case, cybersecurity researchers used lasers to silently manipulate the microphones of com-
puter voice-command systems. Capable of penetrating window glass, these so-called ‘light commands’
further expose digital locks and other smart household appliances to criminal exploitation (Sugawara
et al., 2019).
20. See: https://nicholas.carlini.com/code/audio_adversarial_examples/
21. Interestingly, the researchers indicated that, while this defence only worked on one specific system, they
would aim to generate images that work on multiple detectors simultaneously (Knight, 2019).
22. At the unfortunate cost of making one highly conspicuous to good old-fashioned human surveillance.
See the project page, https://cvdazzle.com/
23. Plus $3.99 shipping.
24. To evidence this point, it was recently estimated that Deep Fakes alone will, by the end of 2020, have
accounted for in excess of $250 million in personal and corporate damages (Forrester, 2019).
25. However, in court cases where fingerprint and DNA evidence were first introduced, judges showed them-
selves too easily wowed by the technology, crediting these techniques with a degree of evidential authority
and infallibility which they did not deserve. See also Alldredge (2015) on the so-called ‘CSI effect’.
26. This does not mean that using AI as a tool will be uncontroversial – see, for instance, the problems that
ensued when AI was used as a ‘lie detector’ in immigration procedures (Kendric, 2019; Molnar, 2019;
Beduschi, 2020), or when facial recognition scans were implemented for prison visitors in England and
Wales (Jee, 2019).
27. This does not mean that such technology is flawless. In 2018, the ACLU found that Amazon’s ‘Rekog-
nition’ system incorrectly matched 28 members of Congress with criminal mugshots (Snow, 2018).
Moreover, facial or emotion-recognition systems have been plagued by racial bias (Rhue, 2018).
28. Notably, in June 2019, Axon announced a moratorium on the use of facial recognition in its bodycam
devices on the advice of its independent ethics board, who deemed that such systems were not yet accu-
rate enough (Warzel, 2019). However, an Axon spokesperson confirmed that police officials could in
principle download the body cam footage and run it through third-party facial recognition services.
29. This development is salient in light of recent criminological research which reviews police body camera
programmes, and found they ‘have not had statistically significant or consistent effects on most meas-
ures of officer and citizen behavior or citizens’ views of police’ (Lum et al., 2019: 93).
30. Earlier this year in China, researchers used algorithms to process footage from a lidar-based camera,
mounted on a Shanghai skyscraper, that was capable of resolving human-sized features through smog
at a distance of 45 km (Li et al., 2019; MIT Technology Review, 2019).
31. Readers of this journal might note the irony that the original idea behind WAMI was conceived by an
unnamed military scientist after he saw the 1998 Hollywood thriller Enemy of the State, a movie in which
Will Smith is tracked by a rogue state agency deploying advanced satellite surveillance.
32. It is suspected that Dark Caracal is itself a hacking group sponsored by an unknown nation state. This
illustrates the degree to which states may, publicly or through proxies, find ways to sell new surveillance
technology to unscrupulous parties.
References
Ackerman E (2011) Qbo robot passes mirror test. IEEE Spectrum: Technology, Engineering, and Science
News, 6 December. Available at: https://spectrum.ieee.org/automaton/robotics/artificial-intelligence/qbo-
passes-mirror-test-is-therefore-selfaware

Hayward and Maas 19
Ahmed S (2019) The messy truth about social credit. Logic Magazine, 1 May. Available at: https://logicmag.
io/china/the-messy-truth-about-social-credit/
Ajder H, Patrini G, Cavalli F et al. (2019) The state of Deep Fakes: landscape, threats, and impact. Deeptrace
Labs, September. Available at: https://regmedia.co.uk/2019/10/08/deepfake_report.pdf
Aldridge J (2019) Does online anonymity boost illegal market trading? Media, Culture & Society 41: 578–583.
Alldredge J (2015) The ‘CSI Effect’ and its potential impact on juror decisions. Themis: Research Journal of
Justice Studies and Forensic Science 3: 15.
Athalye A, Engstrom L, Ilyas A et al. (2018) Synthesizing robust adversarial examples. Available at: https://
arxiv.org/abs/1707.07397
Bahnsen AC, Torroledo I, Camacho LD et al. (2018) Deep Phish: simulating malicious AI June 9. https://pdfs.
semanticscholar.org/ae 99/765 d 48 ab 80 fe 3 e 221 f 2 eedec 719 af 80 b 93 f 9.pdf?_ga=2.137195056.1064
399283.1590653531-1585409390.1590653531
Barbrook R and Cameron A (2001) The Californian ideology. In: Ludlow P (ed.) Crypto Anarchy, Cyberstates,
and Pirate Utopias. Cambridge: MIT Press, pp. 363–387.
Barocas S and Selbst AD (2016) Big Data’s disparate impact. California Law Review 104: 671–732.
Bayern S (2016) The implications of modern business–entity law for the regulation of autonomous systems.
European Journal of Risk Regulation 7: 297–309.
Beduschi A (2020) International migration management in the age of artificial intelligence. Migration Studies.
DOI: 10.1093/migration/mnaa 003.
Bennett Moses L (2007) Why have a theory of law and technological change? Minnesota Journal of Law,
Science & Technology 8: 19.
Bilge L, Strufe T, Balzarotti D et al. (2009) All your contacts belong to us: automated identity theft attacks on
social networks. In: Proceedings of the 18 th international conference on world wide web, Madrid, 20–24
April, pp. 551–560. New York: ACM.
Birnstill P, Bretthauer S, Greiner S et al. (2015) Privacy-preserving surveillance: an interdisciplinary approach.
International Data Privacy Law 5(4): 298–308.
Bontrager P, Roy A, Togelius J et al. (2017) Deep Master Prints: generating Master Prints for dictionary attacks
via latent variable evolution. Available at: https://arxiv.org/abs/1705.07386
Bostrom N (2019) The vulnerable World hypothesis. Global Policy 10: 455–476.
Bridle J (2018) New Dark Age. London: Verso.
Broadhurst R, Maxim D, Brown P et al. (2018) Artificial Intelligence and Crime: A Report for the Korean Insti-
tute of Criminology. Canberra, ACT, Australia: ANU Cybercrime Observatory.
Brown S (2006) The criminology of hybrids: rethinking crime and law in technosocial networks. Theoretical
Criminology 10: 223–244.
Brown TB, Mané D, Roy A et al. (2017) Adversarial patch. Available at: https://arxiv.org/abs/1712.09665
Brownsword R (2015) In the year 2061: from law to technological management. Law, Innovation and Tech-
nology 7: 1–51.
Brundage M, Avin S, Clark J et al. (2018) The malicious use of artificial intelligence. Available at: https://arxiv.
org/ftp/arxiv/papers/1802/1802.07228.pdf
Carlini N and Wagner D (2017) Adversarial examples are not easily detected: bypassing ten detection meth-
ods. In: Proceedings of the 10 th ACM workshop on artificial intelligence and security (AISec ’17), Dallas,
TX, 3 November, pp. 3–14. New York: ACM.
Chan J and Bennett Moses L (2017) Making sense of Big Data for security. British Journal of Criminology 57:
299–319.
Chen S (2018) China’s robotic spy birds take surveillance to new heights. South China Morning Post, 24
June. Available at: https://www.scmp.com/news/china/society/article/2152027/china-takes-surveillance-
new-heights-flock-robotic-doves-do-they
Chen S (2019) This AI uses echolocation to identify what you’re doing. Wired, 28 May. Available at: https://
www.wired.com/story/this-ai-uses-echolocation-to-identify-what-youre-doing/
Chesney R and Citron DK (2019) Deep fakes: a looming challenge for privacy, democracy, and national secu-
rity. California Law Review 107: 1753.

20 CRIME MEDIA CULTURE 00(0)
Chinoy S (2019) We built an ‘unbelievable’ (but legal) facial recognition machine. The New York Times,
16 April. Available at: https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/04/16/opinion/facial-recognition-new-
york-city.html
Cockburn A (2016) Kill Chain: The Rise of the High-Tech Assassins. London: Verso.
Cole S (2019) This horrifying app undresses a photo of any women with a single click. Motherboard, 26
June. Available at: https://me.me/i/motherboard-this-horrifying-app-undresses-a-photo-of-any-woman-
b 07945025 d 024 a 4 aa 830 a 505 dc 09 cc 24
Creemers R (2018) China’s Social Credit System: An Evolving Practice of Control. Rochester, NY: Social Sci-
ence Research Network.
Dalton A, Aghaei E, Al-Shaer E et al. (2020) The Panacea Threat Intelligence and Active Defense Platform.
Available at: http://arxiv.org/abs/2004.09662
Danaher J (2017) Robotic rape and robotic child sexual abuse: should they be criminalised? Criminal Law,
Philosophy 11: 71–95.
Danaher J (2018) The automation of policing: challenges and opportunities. Available at: https://philosophi-
caldisquisitions.blogspot.com/2018/10/the-automation-of-policing-challenges.html (accessed 15 Octo-
ber 2018).
Domigos P (2015) The Master Algorithm. New York: Basic Books.
Dressel J and Farid H (2018) The accuracy, fairness, and limits of predicting recidivism. Science Advances 4:
eaao 5580.
Du L and Maki A (2019) These cameras can spot shoplifters even before they steal. Bloomberg, 4 March.
Available at: https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2019-03-04/the-ai-cameras-that-can-spot-shop-
lifters-even-before-they-steal
Eckert M-L, Kose N and Dugelay J-L (2013) Facial cosmetics database and impact analysis on automatic face
recognition. In: 2013 IEEE 15 th international workshop on multimedia signal processing (MMSP), Pula, 30
September–2 October 2013, pp. 434–443. New York: IEEE.
Els AS (2017) Artificial intelligence as a digital privacy protector. Harvard Journal of Law & Technology 31:
217–235.
Elsayed G, Goodfellow I and Sohl-Dickstein J (2018) Adversarial reprogramming of neural networks. Available
at: https://arxiv.org/abs/1806.11146
Ensign D, Friedler SA, Neville S et al. (2017) Runaway feedback loops in predictive policing. Available at:
https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.09847
Evtimov I, Eykholt K, Fernandes E et al. (2017) Robust physical-world attacks on deep learning models. Avail-
able at: https://arxiv.org/abs/1707.08945
Ezrachi A and Stucke ME (2017) Two Artificial Neural Networks Meet in an Online Hub and Change the
Future (Of Competition, Market Dynamics and Society). Rochester, NY: Social Science Research Network.
Finlayson SG, Bowers JD, Ito J et al. (2019) Adversarial attacks on medical machine learning. Science 363:
1287–1289.
Forrester (2019) Predictions 2020: On the Precipice of Far-Reaching Change. Forrester Research, 30 October.
Available at: https://go.forrester.com/predictions-2020/
Gallidabino MD, Barron LP, Weyermann C et al. (2018) Quantitative Profile–Profile Relationship (QPPR) mod-
elling: a novel machine learning approach to predict and associate chemical characteristics of unspent
ammunition from Gunshot Residue (GSR). Analyst. DOI: 10.1039/C 8 AN 01841 C.
Gershgorn D (2016) Here’s how we prevent the next racist chatbot. Popular Science, 24 March. Available at:
https://www.popsci.com/heres-how-we-prevent-next-racist-chatbot (accessed 21 February 2019).
Gholipour B (2017) New AI tech can mimic any voice. Scientific American, 2 May. Available at: https://www.
scientificamerican.com/article/new-ai-tech-can-mimic-any-voice/
Goodfellow IJ, Papernot N, Huang S et al. (2017) Attacking machine learning with adversarial examples. Open AI
Blog, 24 February. Available at: https://blog.openai.com/adversarial-example-research/
Goodfellow IJ, Shlens J and Szegedy C (2014) Explaining and harnessing adversarial examples. Available at:
https://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6572
Grace K, Salvatier J, Dafoe A et al. (2018) When will AI exceed human performance? Evidence from AI
experts. Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research 62: 729–754. DOI: 10.1613/jair.1.11222.

Hayward and Maas 21
Greenfield A (2017) Radical Technologies. London: Verso.
Gu T, Dola-Gavitt B and Gar S (2017) Bad Nets: identifying vulnerabilities in the machine learning model
supply chain. Available at: https://arxiv.org/abs/1708.06733
Hambling D (2009) Special forces’ Gigapixel flying spy sees all. Wired, 12 February. Available at: https://www.
wired.com/2009/02/gigapixel-flyin/
Hambling D (2019) The Pentagon has a laser that can identify people from a distance—by their heartbeat.
MIT Technology Review, 27 June. Available at: http://www.technologyreview.com/s/613891/the-penta-
gon-has-a-laser-that-can-identify-people-from-a-distanceby-their-heartbeat
Hartzog W and Selinger E (2019) Why you can no longer get lost in the crowd. The New York Times, 17 April.
Available at: https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/17/opinion/data-privacy.html
Harwell D (2019) An artificial-intelligence first: voice-mimicking software reportedly used in a major theft.
Washington Post, 4 September. Available at: https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2019/09/04/
an-artificial-intelligence-first-voice-mimicking-software-reportedly-used-major-theft/
Hayward KJ (2012) Five spaces of cultural criminology. The British Journal of Criminology 52(3): 441–462.
Hern A (2018) Fake fingerprints can imitate real ones in biometric systems – research. The Guardian, 15
November. Available at: https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2018/nov/15/fake-fingerprints-can-
imitate-real-fingerprints-in-biometric-systems-research
Hitaj B, Gasti P, Ateniese G et al. (2017) Pass GAN: a deep learning approach for password guessing. Available
at: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1709.00440.pdf
Holt TJ and Bossler AM (2014) An assessment of the current state of cybercrime scholarship. Deviant Behavior
35: 20–40.
INTERPOL and UNICRI (2019) Artificial Intelligence and Robotics for Law Enforcement. Available at: http://
www.unicri.it/news/files/ARTIFICIAL_INTELLIGENCE_ROBOTICS_LAW%20 ENFORCEMENT_WEB.pdf
Jagatic TN, Johnson NA, Jakobsson M et al. (2007) Social phishing. Communications of the ACM 50: 94–100.
Jee C (2019) Prisons are using face recognition on visitors to prevent drug smuggling. MIT Technology
Review, 6 March. Available at: https://www.technologyreview.com/the-download/613080/prisons-are-
using-face-recognition-on-visitors-to-prevent-drug-smuggling/ (accessed 9 March 2019).
Jin D (2020) Jind 11/Text Fooler. Python. Available at: https://github.com/jind 11/Text Fooler
Joh EE (2017) The undue influence of surveillance technology companies on policing. NYU Legal Review
Online. Available at: https://www.nyulawreview.org/online-features/the-undue-influence-of-surveillance-
technology-companies-on-policing/
Joh EE (2019) Policing the smart city. International Journal of Law in Context 15(2): 177–182.
Jupe LM, and Keatley DA (2019) Airport artificial intelligence can detect deception: or am i lying? Security
Journal. DOI: 10.1057/s 41284-019-00204-7.
Kamyshev P (2019) Machine Learning In The Judicial System Is Mostly Just Hype. Palladium Magazine. Available
at: https://palladiummag.com/2019/03/29/machine-learning-in-the-judicial-system-is-mostly-just-hype/
Kasperkevic J (2015) Swiss police release robot that bought ecstasy online. The Guardian, 22 April. Avail-
able at: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2015/apr/22/swiss-police-release-robot-random-darknet-
shopper-ecstasy-deep-web
Kaufmann M, Egbert S and Leese M (2018) Predictive policing and the politics of patterns. British Journal of
Criminology 59: 674–692.
Kendric M (2019) The border guards you can’t win over with a smile. BBC Future, 17 April. Available at:
https://www.bbc.com/future/article/20190416-the-ai-border-guards-you-cant-reason-with
King TC, Aggarwal N, Taddeo M et al. (2019) Artificial intelligence crime: an interdisciplinary analysis of fore-
seeable threats and solutions. Science and Engineering Ethics 26: 89–120.
Kirchner L, Angwin J, Larson J et al. (2016) Machine bias: there’s software used across the country to predict
future criminals. And it’s biased against blacks. Pro Publica, 23 May. Available at: https://www.propublica.
org/article/machine-bias-risk-assessments-in-criminal-sentencing
Kleinberg J, Lakkaraju H, Leskovec J et al. (2017) Human Decisions and Machine Predictions. Cambridge, MA:
National Bureau of Economic Research.
Knight W (2017) Alpha zero’s ‘Alien’ chess shows the power, and the peculiarity, of AI. MIT Technology
Review, 8 December. Available at: https://www.technologyreview.com/s/609736/alpha-zeros-alien-
chess-shows-the-power-and-the-peculiarity-of-ai/

22 CRIME MEDIA CULTURE 00(0)
Knight W (2019) How to hide from the AI Surveillance State with a color printout. MIT Technology Review, 23
April. Available at: https://www.technologyreview.com/f/613409/how-to-hide-from-the-ai-surveillance-
state-with-a-color-printout/
Knight W (2020) This technique uses AI to fool other AIs. Wired, 23 February. Available at: https://www.
wired.com/story/technique-uses-ai-fool-other-ais/
Kolosnjaji B, Demontis A, Biggio B et al. (2018) Adversarial malware binaries: evading deep learning for mal-
ware detection in executables. Available at: https://arxiv.org/abs/1803.04173
Kong B (2017) Cross-domain forensic shoeprint matching. Available at: https://www.ics.uci.edu/~fowlkes/
papers/Kong SRF_BMVC_2017.pdf.
Kranzberg M (1986) Technology and history: ‘Kranzberg’s Laws’. Technology and Culture 27: 544–560.
Krebs B (2014) Blackshades Trojan users had it coming. Krebs on Security, 14 May. Available at: https://
krebsonsecurity.com/2014/05/blackshades-trojan-users-had-it-coming/ (accessed 18 February 2019).
Kruithof K, Aldridge J, Hétu DD et al. (2016) The Role of the ‘Dark Web’ in the Trade of Illicit Drugs. Santa
Monica, CA: RAND.
Legg S and Hutter M (2007 a) A collection of definitions of intelligence. Available at: https://arxiv.org/
abs/0706.3639
Legg S and Hutter M (2007 b) Universal intelligence: a definition of machine intelligence. Available at: https://
arxiv.org/abs/0712.3329
Lehman J, Clune J, Misevic D et al. (2018) The surprising creativity of digital evolution: a collection of anec-
dotes from the evolutionary computation and artificial life research communities. Available at: https://
arxiv.org/abs/1803.03453
Leibowicz C, Adler S and Eckersley P (2019) When is it appropriate to publish high-stakes AI research?
The Partnership on AI, 2 April. Available at: https://www.partnershiponai.org/when-is-it-appropriate-
to-publish-high-stakes-ai-research/
Levine Y (2018) Surveillance Valley: The Secret Military History of the Internet. New York: Public Affairs.
Li Z-P, Huang X, Cao Y et al. (2019) Single-photon computational 3 D imaging at 45 km. Available at: https://
arxiv.org/abs/1904.10341
Lin Z, Jung J, Goel S et al. (2020) The limits of human predictions of recidivism. Science Advances 6(7):
eaaz 0652. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.aaz 0652
Lookout and Electronic Frontier Foundation (2018) Dark Caracal: Cyber-espionage at a Global Scale. San
Francisco, CA: Lookout.
Lo Pucki LM (2017) Algorithmic entities. Law-Econ research paper, UCLA School of Law, Los Angeles, CA.
Lum C, Stoltz M, Koper CS et al. (2019) Research on body-worn cameras. Criminology & Public Policy 18: 93–118.
Lum K and Isaac W (2016) To predict and serve? Significance 13: 14–19.
Mc Allister A (2018) Stranger than science fiction: the rise of A.I. interrogation in the dawn of autonomous
robots and the need for an additional protocol to the U.N. convention against torture. Minnesota Law
Review. Available at: http://www.minnesotalawreview.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/06/Mc Allister.pdf
Mc Guire MR (2007) Hypercrime. London: Cavendish.
Mc Guire MR, and Holt TJ, (eds) (2017) The Routledge Handbook of Technology, Crime and Justice. Abing-
don: Routledge.
Markoff J (2016) As artificial intelligence evolves, so does its criminal potential. The New York Times, 23
October. Available at: https://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/24/technology/artificial-intelligence-evolves-
with-its-criminal-potential.html
Michel AH (2019) Eyes in the Sky. Boston, MA: HMH Books.
Miranda EM, Mc Burney P and Howard MJW (2016) Learning unfair trading: a market manipulation analysis
from the reinforcement learning perspective. In: Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE conference on evolving
and adaptive intelligent systems, EAIS 2016, pp. 103–109. Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
Inc. DOI: 10.1109/EAIS.2016.7502499.
Mirsky Y, Mahler T, Shelef I et al. (2019) CT-GAN: malicious tampering of 3 D medical imagery using deep
learning. Available at: https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.03597
MIT Technology Review (2019) A new camera can photograph you from 45 kilometres away. MIT Tech-
nology Review, 3 May. Available at: https://www.technologyreview.com/s/613457/a-new-camera-can-
photograph-you-from-45-kilometers-away/

Hayward and Maas 23
Molnar P (2019) Technology on the margins: AI and global migration management from a human rights
perspective. Cambridge International Law Journal 8(2): 305–330. DOI: 10.4337/cilj.2019.02.07.
Mozur P (2018) Inside China’s dystopian dreams: A.I., shame and lots of cameras. The New York Times, 8
July. Available at: https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/08/business/china-surveillance-technology.html
Mozur P (2019) One month, 500,000 face scans: how China is using A.I.to profile a minority. The New
York Times, 14 April. Available at: https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/14/technology/china-surveillance-
artificial-intelligence-racial-profiling.html
Mozur P, Kessel J and Chan M (2019) Made in China, exported to the world: the surveillance state. The
New York Times, 24 April. Available at: https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/24/technology/ecuador-sur-
veillance-cameras-police-government.html
Munksgaard R, Demant J and Branwen G (2016) A replication and methodological critique of the study
‘Evaluating drug trafficking on the Tor Network’. International Journal of Drug Policy 35: 92–96.
Nguyen A, Yosinski J and Clune J (2015) Deep neural networks are easily fooled: high confidence predictions
for unrecognizable images. In: Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recog-
nition, Boston, MA, 7–12 June, pp. 427–436. New York: IEEE.
Oht H, Dekel T, Kim C et al. (2019) Speech 2 Face: learning the face behind a voice. Available at: https://arxiv.
org/abs/1905.09773
Paoli GP, Aldridge J, Ryan N et al. (2017) Behind the Curtain: The Illicit Trade of Firearms, Explosives and
Ammunition on the Dark Web. Santa Monica, CA: RAND.
Parsons C, Molnar A, Dalek J et al. (2019) The predator in your pocket: a multidisciplinary assessment of
the Stalkerware application industry. The Citizen Lab, June. Available at: https://citizenlab.ca/docs/stalker
ware-holistic.pdf
Patterson G and Greene D (2018) The trouble with trusting AI to interpret police body-cam video. IEEE Spec-
trum: Technology, Engineering, and Science News, 21 November. Available at: https://spectrum.ieee.org/
computing/software/the-trouble-with-trusting-ai-to-interpret-police-bodycam-video
Perry N (2018) How Axon is accelerating tech advances in policing. Policeone, 22 June. Available at: https://
www.policeone.com/police-products/body-cameras/articles/476840006-How-Axon-is-accelerating-tech-
advances-in-policing/
Phillips PJ (2018) Face recognition accuracy of forensic examiners, superrecognizers, and face recognition
algorithms. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America 115:
6171–6176.
Piper K (2018) The case for taking AI seriously as a threat to humanity. Vox. Available at: https://www.vox.
com/future-perfect/2018/12/21/18126576/ai-artificial-intelligence-machine-learning-safety-alignment
Powell A, Stratton G and Cameron R (2018) Digital Criminology. London: Routledge.
Radford A, Wu J, Amodei D et al. (2019) Better language models and their implications. In: Openai Blog.
Available at: https://blog.openai.com/better-language-models/
Raponi S, Ali I and Oligeri G (2020) Sound of guns: digital forensics of gun audio samples meets artificial
intelligence. Available at: http://arxiv.org/abs/2004.07948
Rhue L (2018) Racial Influence on Automated Perceptions of Emotions. Rochester, NY: Social Science Research
Network.
Russell SJ and Norvig P (2009) Artificial Intelligence. Harlow: Pearson
Sadowski J and Bendor R (2019) Selling smartness: corporate narratives and the smart city as a sociotechnical
imaginary. Science, Technology, & Human Values 44(3): 540–563.
Sadowski J (2019) The captured city. Real Life, 12 November. Available at: https://reallifemag.com/the-
captured-city/
Satter R (2019) Experts: spy used AI-generated face to connect with targets. AP NEWS, 13 June. Available at:
https://apnews.com/bc 2 f 19097 a 4 c 4 fffaa 00 de 6770 b 8 a 60 d (accessed 13 June 2019).
Sausdal D (2018) Everyday deficiencies of police surveillance: a quotidian approach to surveillance studies.
Policing and Society. Epub ahead of print 13 December. DOI: 10.1080/10439463.2018.1557659.
Scharre P (2019) Killer apps: the real danger of an AI arms race. Foreign Affairs. Available at: https://www.
foreignaffairs.com/articles/2019-04-16/killer-apps
Scharre P and Horowitz MC (2018) Artificial Intelligence. Washington, DC: Center for a New American Security.

24 CRIME MEDIA CULTURE 00(0)
Schneier B (2008) Inside the twisted mind of the security professional. Wired, 20 March. Available at: https://
www.wired.com/2008/03/securitymatters-0320/
Schneier B (2019) AI has made video surveillance automated and terrifying. Vice, 14 June. Available at:
https://www.vice.com/en_in/article/bj 93 z 5/ai-has-made-video-surveillance-automated-and-terrifying
Schwartz O (2019) Don’t look now: why you should be worried about machines reading your emotions. The
Guardian, 6 March. Available at: https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2019/mar/06/facial-recogni-
tion-software-emotional-science
Seymour J and Tully P (2016) Weaponizing data science for social engineering: automated E 2 E spear phish-
ing on Twitter. Available at: https://www.blackhat.com/docs/us-16/materials/us-16-Seymour-Tully-Weap-
onizing-Data-Science-For-Social-Engineering-Automated-E 2 E-Spear-Phishing-On-Twitter-wp.pdf
Sharkey N, Goodman M and Ros N (2010) The coming robot crime wave. IEEE Computer Magazine 43:
116–115.
Shevlane T and Dafoe A (2020) The offense-defense balance of scientific knowledge: does publishing AI research
reduce misuse? In: Proceedings of the AAAI/ACM conference on AI, ethics, and society, pp. 173–179. AIES
’20. New York: ACM.
Shumailov I, Simon L, Yan J et al. (2019) Hearing your touch: a new acoustic side channel on smartphones.
Available at: https://arxiv.org/abs/1903.11137
Singh A, Patil D, Reddy GM et al. (2017) Disguised Face Identification (DFI) with facial keypoints using spatial
fusion convolutional network. Available at: https://arxiv.org/abs/1708.09317
Smith CS (2018) Alexa and Siri can hear this hidden command. You can’t. The New York Times, 10 May.
Available at: https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/10/technology/alexa-siri-hidden-command-audio-
attacks.html
Smith GJD, Bennett Moses L and Chan J (2017) The challenges of doing criminology in the Big Data era:
towards a digital and data-driven approach. British Journal Criminology 57: 259–274.
Snow J (2018) Amazon’s face recognition falsely matched 28 members of congress with mugshots. Ameri-
can Civil Liberties Union, 26 July. Available at: https://www.aclu.org/blog/privacy-technology/surveillance-
technologies/amazons-face-recognition-falsely-matched-28
Solaiman I, Brundage I, Clark J et al. (2019) Release strategies and the social impacts of language models.
Available at: https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.09203
Spera C, Wittes B, Poplin C et al. (2016) Sextortion: cybersecurity, teenagers, and remote sexual assault.
Brookings, 11 May. Available at: https://www.brookings.edu/research/sextortion-cybersecurity-teenag-
ers-and-remote-sexual-assault/
Stanley J (2019) The Dawn of Robot Surveillance. New York: American Civil Liberties Union.
Stark L (2019) Facial recognition is the plutonium of AI. XRDS 25(3): 50–55.
Steinmetz K and Nobles MR (2017) Technocrime and Criminological Theory. New York: Routledge.
Sugawara T, Genkin D, Cyr B et al. (2019) Light commands: laser-based audio injection attacks on voice-control-
lable systems. Available at: https://lightcommands.com/20191104-Light-Commands.pdf
Sullivan G (2014) 5 scary things about the ‘Blackshades’ RAT. Washington Post, 20 May. Available at: https://
www.washingtonpost.com/news/morning-mix/wp/2014/05/20/5-scary-things-about-blackshades-malware/
Sutter JD (2011) Amazon seller lists book at $23,698,655.93–plus shipping. CNN, 25 April. Available at:
http://edition.cnn.com/2011/TECH/web/04/25/amazon.price.algorithm/index.html
Tencent Keen Security Lab (2019) Experimental Security Research of Tesla Autopilot. Tencent. Available at:
https://keenlab.tencent.com/en/whitepapers/Experimental_Security_Research_of_Tesla_Autopilot.pdf
Thys SVAN, Ranst W and Goedemè T (2019) Fooling automated surveillance cameras: adversarial patches to
attack person detection. Available at: https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.08653
Topol SA (2016) Killer Robots are coming and these people are trying to stop them. Buzzfeed, 26 August.
Available at: https://www.buzzfeed.com/sarahatopol/how-to-save-mankind-from-the-new-breed-of-
killer-robots
Trask A (2017) Safe crime prediction: homomorphic encryption and deep learning for more effective, less
intrusive digital surveillance. Available at: https://iamtrask.github.io/2017/06/05/homomorphic-surveil-
lance/ (accessed 8 June 2017).

Hayward and Maas 25
Turing AM (1950) Computing Machinery and Intelligence. Mind: A Quarterly Review 59: 433–460.
Turner J (2018) Robot Rules: Regulating Artificial Intelligence. New York: Springer Berlin Heidelberg.
Vestby A and Vestby J (2019) Machine learning and the police: asking the right questions. Policing: A Journal
of Policy and Practice. Epub ahead of print 14 June. DOI: 10.1093/police/paz 035.
Vincent J (2018) These faces show how far AI image generation has advanced in just four years. The Verge,
17 December. Available at: https://www.theverge.com/2018/12/17/18144356/ai-image-generation-fake-
faces-people-nvidia-generative-adversarial-networks-gans
Von der Burchard H (2018) Belgian socialist party circulates ‘deep fake’ Donald Trump video. POLITICO, 21
May. Available at: https://www.politico.eu/article/spa-donald-trump-belgium-paris-climate-agreement-
belgian-socialist-party-circulates-deep-fake-trump-video/
Wall T and Linnemann T (2014) Staring down the state: police power, visual economies, and the ‘war on
cameras’. Crime, Media, Culture 10(2): 133–149.
Warzel C (2019) A major police body cam company just banned facial recognition. The New York Times,
27 June. Available at: https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/27/opinion/police-cam-facial-recognition.html
Williams ML and Burnap P (2016) Cyberhate on social media in the aftermath of woolwich: a case study in
computational criminology and Big Data. British Journal of Criminology 56: 211–238.
Williams R (2017) Lords select committee, artificial intelligence committee, written evidence (AIC 0206). Avail-
able at: http://data.parliament.uk/writtenevidence/committeeevidence.svc/evidencedocument/artificial-
intelligence-committee/artificial-intelligence/written/70496.html#_ftn 13
Winston A (2018) Palantir has secretly been using New Orleans to test its predictive policing technology. The
Verge, 27 February. Available at: https://www.theverge.com/2018/2/27/17054740/palantir-predictive-
policing-tool-new-orleans-nopd
Xiao C, Deng R, Li B et al. (2018) Characterizing adversarial examples based on spatial consistency informa-
tion for semantic segmentation. Available at: http://arxiv.org/abs/1810.05162
Xu K, Zhang G, Liu S et al. (2019) Evading real-time person detectors by adversarial T-shirt. Available at:
https://arxiv.org/abs/1910.11099
Yeung K (2017) ‘Hypernudge’: Big Data as a mode of regulation by design. Information, Communication &
Society 20(1): 118–136.
Yudkowsky E (2008) Artificial intelligence as a positive and negative factor in global risk. In: Bostrom N and
Cirkovic MM (eds) Global Catastrophic Risks. Oxford: Oxford University Press, pp. 308–345.
Zardiashvili L, Bieger J, Dechesne F et al. (2019) AI ethics for law enforcement. Delphi 4(7). Available at:
https://delphi.lexxion.eu/article/DELPHI/2019/4/7
Zedner L (2007) Pre-crime and post-criminology? Theoretical Criminology 11: 261–281.
Zellers R, Holtzman A, Rashkin H et al. (2019) Defending against neural fake news. Available at: http://arxiv.
org/abs/1905.12616
Zuboff S (2019) The Age of Surveillance Capitalism: The Fight for a Human Future at the New Frontier of
Power. New York: Public Affairs.
Author biographies
Keith Hayward is Professor of Criminology at the Faculty of Law, University of Copenhagen, Denmark and
a Visiting Professor at the School of Justice, Queensland University of Technology, Australia. His research
interests include criminological theory, space and crime, digital criminology, and terrorism and extremism.
Matthijs M. Maas is a Ph D Fellow at the Centre for International Law and Governance (Faculty of Law,
University of Copenhagen), and a Research Affiliate with the Center for the Governance of AI at the Future
of Humanity Institute (University of Oxford). His research focuses on global governance strategies for artificial
intelligence, and the disruptive effects of emerging technologies for law and power.